3-M CHRISTMAS TEXT: Luke 1:26-38 (NKJV) “Now in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth, 27 to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. The virgin’s name was Mary. 28 And having come in, the angel said to her, “Rejoice, highly favored one, the Lord is with you; blessed are you among women!” 29 But when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and considered what manner of greeting this was. 30 Then the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. 31 And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bring forth a Son, and shall call His name Jesus. 32 He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Highest; and the Lord God will give Him the throne of His father David. 33 And He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of His kingdom there 

will be no end.” 34 Then Mary said to the angel, “How can this be, since I do not know a man?” 35 And the angel answered and said to her, “The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Highest will overshadow you; therefore, also, that Holy One who is to be born will be called the Son of God. 36 Now indeed, Elizabeth your relative has also conceived a son in her old age; and this is now the sixth month for her who was called barren. 37 For with God nothing will be impossible.” 38 Then Mary said, “Behold the maidservant of the Lord! Let it be to me according to your word.” And the angel departed from her.” INTRO: Christmas as we know it is pretty much everything except for what the Word declares it to be. Christmas has become: • Santa… • The elves… • Reindeer… 

• Family gatherings… • Expensive presents… • Extravagant decorations… The truth of the matter is that Christmas should be the celebration of the birth of the Savior of the world and how that birth has affected all of us. Today I am going to challenge all of us to have a 3-M Christmas this year. A 3-M Christmas focuses us on: • The Miracle of Christmas… • The Mystery of Christmas… • The Majesty of Christmas… Christmas is ushered in with the angelic announcement of the good news of the birth of Jesus Christ. Imagine that first Christmas with me: • Angels… • Shepherds… 

• Wise men… • The Judean desert… • Stars dancing across the skies… • Angelic hosts singing in the skies… • A manger transitioning to a delivery room… • Joseph, Mary and their newborn son, Jesus… Anytime angels are involved the miraculous, the mysterious and the majestic will soon manifest in real time. There are many angelic appearances in god’s Word: • An angel appeared at Sodom and Gomorrah… • Angels appeared at the ford of the Jabbok River where Jacob wrestled with an angel of God… • The psalmist said, "men ate angels' food..." • Angels assisted Jesus following His 

wilderness testing... • Revelation mentions angels more than twenty times…. Angels are everywhere in the Christmas story: • An angel appeared to Mary… • An angel appeared to Joseph… • Angels appeared to the shepherds… I. ANGELS ANNOUNCED THE MIRACLE OF CHRISTMAS… The angel Gabriel (angels have names!) appeared to Mary to announce that the Holy Spirit would overshadow her and she would give birth to a child that she was to name “Jesus”, meaning "Jehovah is salvation." Interestingly Mary did not seem frightened. (Every time angels appear they say “Fear not” That is easier for the angel to say than for us to do - What would we do if we saw an angel?) 

The Angel came with a message of how she had found favor or grace with God, and that she had been chosen to become the earthly mother of the Son of God! Mary asked questions at first, and then accepted this good news as the angel had spoken it. Notice she said, “Be it unto me as He has said.” Listen to the words of Mary’s song: Luke 1:46-55 (NKJV) “My soul magnifies the Lord, 47 And my spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior. 48 For He has regarded the lowly state of His maidservant; For behold, henceforth all generations will call me blessed. 49 For He who is mighty has done great things for me, And holy is His name. 50 And His mercy is on those who fear Him From generation to generation. 51 He has shown strength with His arm; He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts. 52 He has put down the mighty from their 

thrones, And exalted the lowly. 53 He has filled the hungry with good things, And the rich He has sent away empty. 54 He has helped His servant Israel, In remembrance of His mercy, 55 As He spoke to our fathers, To Abraham and to his seed forever.” C.S. Lewis says of Christmas, "The whole thing narrows and narrows, until at last it comes down to a little point, as small as the point of a spear - a Jewish girl at her prayers." Mary and Joseph in their simple faith accepted the good news of Jesus' birth as their purpose in life. They demonstrated faith in God's plan and they experienced God's peace. Through Mary the miracle of Christmas would become a reality. Because of what happened on this first Christmas more than twenty centuries ago, you too can receive a miracle this Christmas! 

It is my prayer that you will have a 3-M Christmas and experience a renewed sense of the miracle of that first Christmas and allow miracles to be manifested to you and yours! II. ANGELS ANNOUNCED THE MYSTERY OF CHRISTMAS… Luke 1:31-33 (NKJV) “And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bring forth a Son, and shall call His name Jesus. 32 He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Highest; and the Lord God will give Him the throne of His father David. 33 And He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of His kingdom there will be no end.” This passage describes the mystery of Christ. The drama of Christmas comes as if God had pulled back a curtain on the world's stage and placed a spotlight on Christ’s birth 

in Bethlehem. This baby would be named Jesus “For He will save His people FROM their sins.” Jesus entered the world in a very mysterious way indeed: • A virgin conceived… • A child was born but a son was given… • God became a human being with a dirt body… • He established a kingdom – Not like other earthly kingdoms – A heavenly kingdom… The birth of Jesus was so mysterious that Mary asks, "How can this be?" Because of the mystery of His birth we stand in awe of God becoming one of us! I want to challenge you to have a 3-M Christmas this year and guard against racing through Christmas at a pace that causes us to 

lose a sense of awe around the mystery of His birth. III. ANGELS ANNOUNCED THE MAJESTY OF CHRISTMAS… The not-so-obvious message of Christmas is found in Luke 1:36 (NKJV) “Now indeed, Elizabeth your relative has also conceived a son in her old age; and this is now the sixth month for her who was called barren.” This is the message to Elizabeth and Mary: “Nothing is impossible with God!” Think of this: • There are some things God cannot do because He has chosen not to… (Override human will) • Yet the Bible says “Nothing is impossible with god…” • Let me say it another way, “It is impossible for God to do nothing…” If Christmas teaches us anything, it is that it 

is impossible for God to be inactive. The Christ of Christmas invites us to place our faith in Him and watch him produce within us a spirit of hope. This hope: • Is more than positive thinking... • Is more than a good attitude... • Is more than a good feeling on a sunny day... It is a hope rooted in Christ's birth, life, death, burial, and resurrection! His birth secures our present and future through the salvation of His cross. His birth guarantees our future because we believe in him. When our present faith and future hope in Christ join hands, we are carried from today and into tomorrow knowing the majesty of His birth will clear the way for all our tomorrows. Because of this, we have hope no matter 

what comes our way. We experience the majesty and grandeur of Christ as he carries us day by day. Because of His majesty we can respond to life's: • Pain… • Pressure… • Struggles… • Anxiousness… … With the same faith and confidence that Mary and Joseph displayed when visited by angels. It is my prayer that we experience a majestic Christmas as we see Him for who He is (Jehovah God) and see ourselves the way He sees us: • Sons of God… • Heirs of God… • Joint heirs with Jesus… • A holy nation… • A royal priesthood… 

• A peculiar people… • Set apart for the work of God… CONCLUSION: Walt Whitman wrote about "America's teeming intricate whirl." That is, that we in America pride ourselves too much on being busy and cramming our time with stuff. In the whirlwind of Christmas, exhausting in its hectic pace, it would do us good to: • Pause… • Wait, to feel the brush of angel's wings… • Slow down enough to hear God's message… “For unto you is born this day, in the City of David a savior, which is Christ the Lord.” My prayer is that we can slow down in this 

season and recapture the miracle, the mystery, and the majesty of Christmas. If we do, we're bound to respond like Mary did, "My soul praises God my Savior!" Merry Christmas!