The national events of the past month have no doubt shaken all of us somewhat. Without question Tuesday, September 11th, 2001 will go down in the history books as one of the darkest day's in United States history. Before that day none of us would have believed such hideous things could occur within the borders of this nation.

As a result of this tragedy we have seen quite a number of positive things happening that probably would not have happened;

Bipartisan politics in Washington DC. The politicians have forsaken their own personal agenda, and are pursuing an agenda that is driven by what is good for the people.

People are pulling together as never before. The theme all across America seems to be, "What can I do to help"! Following this tragedy I called officials in the New York City area to offer to bring a group of people to aid in the clean-up effort, and was told that they had more help than they could manage now!

Public praying and quoting of Scripture is being spoken out over the airwaves in a manner that we have not seen in many years. (And no one seems to mind!)

Fox News reported that on Sunday, September 16th, 2001, Synagogues and houses of worship were "stacked to the rafters".

This is certainly not an exhaustive list of positive things that have come from such a terrible turn of events, but some good things are beginning to surface in this nation. Never forget that God has a way of turning tragedy into triumph.

Someone asked me what the role of Christians should be in a time such as this? My answer was as follows:

# I. REPENT OF PAST SINS!

Repentance is needed in America, from the church house to the state house to the schoolhouse. I believe that if America will repent, there will be national as well as worldwide revival. 2 Chron. 7:14 "If my people, who are called by my name, will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land."

Repentance is more than just saying you are sorry, it is turning to walk in a different direction. If we will do what the Bible say's we will receive the benefits it promises.

## II. RESPOND TO PRESENT PROBLEMS!

There has never been a time when the opportunity to minister to the hurts and needs of people has been as great as it is right now. It seems as though these terrible events have caused people to become transparent. People are allowing their own problems, domestic, spiritual, and social to come to the surface possibly in the hopes that someone can help them. The question is will we be there for them, or will we allow the day of our visitation to pass us by? Jesus said, Luke 4:18-19 "The Spirit of the Lord is on me, because he has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoners and recovery of sight for the blind, to release the oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord\'s favor."

Can we rise to the occasion and do what Jesus would do?

## III. CLAIM THE PROMISES OF GOD!

In spite of all the pain, fear, and hurt, God's promises are as follows;

He will be with us always!

He will direct our path!

He will turn our mourning into dancing!

In times like these we need to stand on God's promises!