BETTER DAYS AHEAD Blue denotes PPT slide Brown denotes instructions to technician TEXT: Philippians 3:13-14 (NKJV) “Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended; but one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, 14 I press toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.” INTRO: We all know there is nothing impossible with God, but many things are impossible for us. An impossibility that we all grapple with is that we cannot live in our past, present and future at the same time. Try as we might, we can’t reach back into yesterday. Many people go through life attempting to recapture the past. This is a futile exercise and a big waste of time and energy. 

Try as we might, we can’t live in the future prematurely. Because we spend so much time tethered to the past and daydreaming about our future, we miss the opportunities of the present. Today is a gift, that is why it is called the present. I want to remind all of us, based on what Paul said, that the future hinges on today…not yesterday or tomorrow. In order to properly step into our future we must let go of the past, embrace the present and patiently await the provision of God for our future. We all have a story. What is behind us, good or bad, is certainly part of the future. But what is ahead of us is everything we were created for. 

Paul is letting us know that we should savor the present, embrace the future, and let yesterday stay where it belongs - behind us. I. TEMPORARY vs. PERMANENT… There are four temporaries in every person’s life: • Temporary relationships… Some people are in your life for reasons and seasons (Paul and Barnabas) (Paul and Demas) • Temporary circumstances… Certain circumstances enter and leave your life quickly (Paul and Silas in a Philippian jail) • Temporary struggles… Paul's perils - 2 Corinthians 11:24-28 (NKJV) “From the Jews five times I received forty stripes minus one. 25 Three times I was beaten with rods; once I was stoned; three times I was shipwrecked; a night and a day I have been in the deep; 26 in journeys often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils of my own countrymen, in perils of the Gentiles, in perils in the city, in perils 

in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren; 27 in weariness and toil, in sleeplessness often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness— 28 besides the other things, what comes upon me daily: my deep concern for all the churches.” • Temporary successes… Paul’s pedigree Philippians 3:4-8 (NKJV) “Though I also might have confidence in the flesh. If anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so: 5 circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews; concerning the law, a Pharisee; 6 concerning zeal, persecuting the church; concerning the righteousness which is in the law, blameless. 7 But what things were gain to me, these I have counted loss for Christ. 8 Yet indeed I also count all things loss for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have 

suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, that I may gain Christ.” We should not allow the temporary in our relationships, circumstances, struggles, and successes to cause a permanent disability in our present or future. Most people believe their past has a hold on them, but the truth is the past has no hands or arms! We have a hold on our past! When will we gather the courage to turn it loose? I challenge you today, let it go! If we will let go of what we have in our hand, (the past) God will let go of what's in His hand: • Blessing… • Direction… • Provision… • Protection… 

So what will it be? Are we going to be tethered to the past or will we release it and embrace the present while reaching for the future? II. PERMANENT vs. TEMPORARY… Last week we talked about temporary versus permanent; this week I want to talk about permanent versus temporary. There are many things that occur in our lives that are meant to be temporary. At the appropriate time we are to put them in the rear view mirror of our lives and move on because better days are ahead. There are seven things the Word of God tells us to hold on to that I want to focus on today: • Hold on to your faith… Hebrews 4:14 (CEV) “We have a great high priest, who has gone into heaven, and he is Jesus the Son of God. That is why we must hold on to what we have said about him.” Hebrews 10:23 (CEV) “We must hold tightly to the 

hope that we say is ours. After all, we can trust the one who made the agreement with us.” • Hold on to your wife… Genesis 2:24 (NKJV) “Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh.” Jesus quoted this verse in Matthew 19:5 (NKJV) “For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh?” Paul quoted this verse in Ephesians 5:31 (NKJV) “For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh.” • Hold on to the Word… 2 Thessalonians 2:15 (MSG) “Friends, take a firm stand, feet on the ground and head high. Keep a tight grip on what you were taught, whether in personal conversation or by our letter. May Jesus himself and God our Father, who reached out in love and surprised you with gifts of unending help 

and confidence, put a fresh heart in you, invigorate your work, enliven your speech.” 2 Timothy 1:13 (MSG) “Keep at your work, this faith and love rooted in Christ, exactly as I set it out for you. It’s as sound as the day you first heard it from me. Guard this precious thing placed in your custody by the Holy Spirit who works in us.” Proverbs 4:13 (NKJV) “Take firm hold of instruction, do not let go; Keep her, for she is your life.” Paul talking to Titus whom he left in charge of church planting in Crete, says when you appoint a pastor Titus 1:9 (CEV) “They must stick to the true message they were taught, so that their good teaching can help others and correct everyone who opposes it.” • Hold on to what is good… 1 Thessalonians 5:19-22 (MSG) “Don’t suppress the Spirit, and don’t stifle those who have a word from the Master. On the other hand, don’t be gullible. Check out everything, and keep 

only what’s good. Throw out anything tainted with evil.” • Hold on to your confidence… Hebrews 3:6 (AMP) “But Christ (the Messiah) was faithful over His own Father’s house as a Son and Master of it. And it is we who are now members of this house, if we hold fast and firm to the end our joyful and exultant confidence and sense of triumph in our hope in Christ.” Hebrews 3:14 (AMP) “For we have become fellows with Christ (the Messiah) and share in all He has for us, if only we hold our first newborn confidence and original assured expectation in virtue of which we are believers firm and unshaken to the end.” Hebrews 10:35 (AMP) “Do not, therefore, fling away your fearless confidence, for it carries a great and glorious compensation of reward.” • Hold on to the things that cannot be shaken… Hebrews 12:25-27 (NKJV) “See that you do not refuse Him who speaks. 

For if they did not escape who refused Him who spoke on earth, much more shall we not escape if we turn away from Him who speaks from heaven, 26 whose voice then shook the earth; but now He has promised, saying, “Yet once more I shake not only the earth, but also heaven.” 27 Now this, “Yet once more,” indicates the removal of those things that are being shaken, as of things that are made, that the things which cannot be shaken may remain.” Jesus speaks to the church of Philadelphia through John and said, Revelation 3:10-11 (NKJV) “Because you have kept My command to persevere, I also will keep you from the hour of trial which shall come upon the whole world, to test those who dwell on the earth. 11 Behold, I am coming quickly! Hold fast what you have, that no one may take your crown.” • Hold on to the name of Jesus… Revelation 2:8-15 (NKJV) ““And to the angel of the church in Smyrna (The persecuted church) 

write, ‘These things says the First and the Last, who was dead, and came to life: 9 “I know your works, tribulation, and poverty (but you are rich); and I know the blasphemy of those who say they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. 10 Do not fear any of those things which you are about to suffer. Indeed, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested, and you will have tribulation ten days. Be faithful until death, and I will give you the crown of life. 11 “He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes shall not be hurt by the second death.”’ 12 “And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write, ‘These things says He who has the sharp two-edged sword: 13 “I know your works, and where you dwell, where Satan’s throne is. And you hold fast to My name, and did not deny My faith even in the days in which Antipas was My faithful martyr, who was killed among you, 

where Satan dwells. 14 But I have a few things against you, because you have there those who hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit sexual immorality. 15 Thus you also have those who hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which thing I hate.” In order to hold on to what is important and permanent, you have to let go of what is temporary and behind you. Philippians 3:13-14 (NKJV) “Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended; but one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things which are ahead, 14 I press toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus.” 

Romans 8:28 (NKJV) “And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are the called according to His purpose.” III. THE STORY IN PART, BUT NOT IN WHOLE… We all have a story, and that story consists of the past, present, and the future. Each of us has been sent into this world by a God who had a divine design for our lives. Psalm 139:13-16 (CEV) “You are the one who put me together inside my mother’s body, 14 and I praise you because of the wonderful way you created me. Everything you do is marvelous! Of this I have no doubt. 15 Nothing about me is hidden from you! I was secretly woven together deep in the earth below, 16 but with your own eyes you saw my body being formed. Even before I was born you had written in your book everything I would do.” (Use a set of blue prints here) 

God created you to be not only who you are, but who He is making you into. It is a fact that our past is a part of our story, but the truth is it does not have to design our present nor negatively influence our future: • Abraham was a liar, but became the father of the faith… • Moses was a murderer, but became a deliverer… • Samson was a womanizer, but God used him to settle the score with a nation… • David was a cheater and murderer, but God recognized him as a “man after His own heart”… • Paul was a ruthless maniac, but became an Apostle of the New Testament Church… • Peter was a filthy mouthed fisherman, but God used him to take the message of Christ to the gentiles… • The Philippian jailer was a sleaze bag, but God saved his entire household in one terrific night… 

• John was an average fisherman, but God used him to write the greatest revelation ever known to man… How long are we going to allow our past to cripple our present and dictate our future? The things that are behind are a part of our story, but they are not the whole story! Romans 8:28 (NKJV) “And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are the called according to His purpose.” (Use Braden’s train track to illustrate this) God is making the entirety of your story count, even the ugly parts. God wrote our stories, then tailor made us to live it out. The timing of our destiny is dependent on several factors: • Can we forget the past? 

• Can we learn from our mistakes? • Can we trust God enough to embrace today? • Can we confidently reach into our future while not allowing the shadow of the past to cloud the plan of God? Jeremiah 29:10-11 (MSG) “This is GOD’s Word on the subject: “As soon as Babylon’s seventy years are up and not a day before, I’ll show up and take care of you as I promised and bring you back home. I know what I’m doing. I have it all planned out—plans to take care of you, not abandon you, plans to give you the future you hope for.” The story of our lives and ministries, as it stands today, is in part but not in whole! Better days are ahead! (Tell my story) 

## III. (This would be a fantastic place to share your story.) Sermon 4: Those Things Behind God I. My forgiven past is behind God. Isaiah 38:17 Isaiah 43:25 Romans 8:33 II. God is in charge of my destiny. I was formed for this moment. Mordecai to Esther…” And who knows but that you have come to your royal position for such a time as this?” (Esther 4:14)

I can handle this moment. 1 Corinthians 10:13 Philippians 4:13 III. My life is not my own. I was bought with a price. a. 1 Corinthians 6:20 b. 1 Corinthians 7:23 c. 1 Peter 1:18