CHAIN BREAKERS Blue denotes ppt slide Brown denotes instructions to technician TEXT: 2 kings 13:14-19 (NKJV) “Elisha had become sick with the illness of which he would die. Then Joash the king of Israel came down to him, and wept over his face, and said, “O my father, my father, the chariots of Israel and their horsemen!” 15 And Elisha said to him, “Take a bow and some arrows.” So he took himself a bow and some arrows. 16 Then he said to the king of Israel, “Put your hand on the bow.” So he put his hand on it, and Elisha put his hands on the king’s hands. 17 And he said, “Open the east window”; and he opened it. Then Elisha said, “Shoot”; and he shot. And he said, “The arrow of the Lord’s deliverance and the arrow of deliverance from Syria; for you must strike 

the Syrians at Aphek till you have destroyed them.” 18 Then he said, “Take the arrows”; so he took them. And he said to the king of Israel, “Strike the ground”; so he struck three times, and stopped. 19 And the man of God was angry with him, and said, “You should have struck five or six times; then you would have struck Syria till you had destroyed it! But now you will strike Syria only three times.” INTRO: This passage of scripture is very unusual for many reasons, but especially because it provides us with a window to peer into the deathbed actions of one of the greatest prophets the world has ever known. In this passage, Elisha is sick with a disease from which he would not recover. To set the stage for the story line, I must take you back to a king by the name of Jeroboam. Jeroboam was such an infamous 

character, that four times the scripture says a successor “Followed after the sins of Jeroboam.” Twelve times it is mentioned that “Jeroboam made Israel to sin.” That is pretty strong language. The fact is, Jeroboam opened some doors of moral and spiritual destruction that remained open for hundreds of years. The sins of Jeroboam wreaked havoc on the nation and ultimately brought about the death of thousands of individuals. It is also important to acknowledge that twenty five times the scripture introduces Jeroboam as “The son of Nebat” (Nay-bat). It is for certain the scripture is tying the bad character of Jeroboam to his father. A child gets 80% of their identity from their father. If you want to know who Nebat (Nay-bat) was, all you have to do is look at Jeroboam. The name Nebat (Nay-bat) means “He who opposes the people.” 

Either Nebat (Nay-bat) was a devil or he allowed his son to act like the devil, so that his son was solely responsible for the spiritual and moral demise of a nation. The damage done by Jeroboam would be felt for more that two hundred years as one king after another would parade in and out of the throne, always following after the poor example of Jeroboam who “made Israel sin”. In our text, Jehoahaz, (Ju-ho-uh-haz) the son of Jehu, became King and reigned over Israel for seventeen years. During this time things went from bad to worse. Hazael, (Has-eel) King of Syria, followed by his son Benhadad, systematically stole from Israel taking property and possessions from them. They stole Israel blind, confiscating most of the property that lay east of the Jordan. 

The rule of Hazael (Haz-eel) and Benhadad negatively impacted Israel to the point that the entire military might of Jehoahaz (Ju-ho- uh-haz) consisted of: • 10 chariots… • 50 calvary troops… • 10,000 foot soldiers… Make no mistake about it, the design of the enemy is to reduce each of us to an incompetent, poorly trained, misguided and unquestionably impotent group of folks. During the reign of Jehoahaz, (Ju-ho-uh- haz) the King recognized that unless he called upon the Lord, he was about to preside over the utter collapse of a nation. The raw material of a breakthrough is desperation! 

Please allow me to show you how willing God is to get involved, even when there have been decades of sinful behavior. Verses 4 – 5 “Jehoahaz (Ju-ho-uh-haz) prayed to the LORD for help, and the LORD saw how terribly Hazael (Has-eel) was treating the Israelites. He answered Jehoahaz (Ju-ho-uh-haz) 5 by sending Israel a leader who rescued them from the Syrians, and the Israelites lived in peace as they had before.” Most people feel that God will not hear them because they have messed up too many times; but He stands ready for us to turn our situations over to Him! His constant pattern of activity is rescue! The interesting thing here is that even though God heard the cry of a less than righteous King and sent deliverance, neither the King nor the people turned their hearts completely over to God. 

Jehoash succeeded Jehoahaz (Ju-ho-uh-haz) as King and ruled for sixteen years. During the reign of Jehoash, Benhadad took even more of the land and Israel became even weaker. During the reign of Jehoash, word came to the King that the prophet Elisha was on his deathbed. As wicked as the king was and as far as the country was from God, the King paid a visit to the deathbed of the prophet Elisha. For all the miracles Elisha had performed and for all the powerful words he had spoken in times of national crisis, the prophet had not been heard from for forty - five years. It is believed that Elisha could have been somewhere around one hundred twenty years old when Jehoash made this visit. 

When Jehoash walked into the room where the man of God was, he cried out “O my father, my father, the chariots of Israel and their horsemen!” Two things were being declared here: • Before you leave, can you do something about the weakened condition of the military? 10 chariots – 50 calvary troops – 10,000 foot soldiers • What will we do without you? The fact is they had been operating independently of the man of God for four and a half decades! Four things happen here: I. AN ARROW WAS SHOT TOWARD SYRIA Look at this! After four and a half decades of being ignored, the man of God was willing to bless Israel and a less than perfect King. 

You may feel you have sinned too greatly for God to send deliverance and blessing into your life, but if you will call on Him, He stands ready to bless you now. 2 Kings 13:15-17 (NKJV) “And Elisha said to him, “Take a bow and some arrows.” So he took himself a bow and some arrows. 16 Then he said to the king of Israel, “Put your hand on the bow.” So he put his hand on it, and Elisha put his hands on the king’s hands. 17 And he said, “Open the east window”; and he opened it. Then Elisha said, “Shoot”; and he shot. And he said, “The arrow of the Lord’s deliverance and the arrow of deliverance from Syria…” ILLUSTRATION: (HAVE JAMES WADLEY SHOOT AN ARROW OUT OF THE BALCONY) The prophet: 

• Placed his hands over the hands of the King… (Divine presence is of ultimate importance) (Moses – if your presence goes not with us – carry us not up hence) • Shot an arrow toward the east… (Syria was to the east) (The land they had lost was to the east) • Declared the arrow to be an arrow of deliverance…(God – Has delivered – Does deliver – Will deliver) • Specifically named the arrow a token of Israel’s deliverance from Syria… (Name your arrow) Some of us need to shoot an arrow toward the things that have: • Robbed us… • Come against us… • Kept us back… I’ve come into this house today to shoot arrows of deliverance. 

The chain breaker is in the house today! The prophet specifically shot the arrow out the window facing East. The Syrians were to the east! Syria means exalted. Exalted means to raise to a higher realm or position of power. If something is exalted it has become enthroned and when something receives such license in your life it eliminates (Pushes out) everything else. I call on some folks today to raise a window in your life and shoot an arrow of deliverance at the things that have become exalted in your life! Shoot an arrow of deliverance at: • Drug addiction… • Sexual perversion… • Personal agendas… • Religious spirits… 

By shooting the arrow at Syria the prophet was saying, strike it in the heart. God is looking for some people that will stand up and strike a blow in the heart of the enemy. Stop: • Ignoring it… • Coddling it… • Playing with it… Strike at the heart of the matter! Break the chain! If we are not careful we exalt: • Family problems… • Relational problems… • Financial problems… • Spiritual problems… Exalted things have lied to, stolen from and robbed us. Strike it in the heart! 

Psalm 18:46 (NKJV) “The Lord lives! Blessed be my Rock! Let the God of my salvation be exalted.” I declare to you: There are things that were exalted in your life when you walked in here today that will not exist when you walk out! Break the chains! How do you break the chains? Exalt Him and demolish the chains that have held you captive! II. THE KING WAS INSTRUCTED TO STRIKE THE SYRIANS AT APHEK… First the King was instructed to shoot arrows toward the east and specifically at Syria. Syria means exalted. God was speaking to the King to attack the things that had become exalted. God wants us to do battle against anything that has been improperly exalted in our 

lives. “Thou shalt have no other god’s before me.” The King was then instructed that he  “… must strike the Syrians at Aphek till you have destroyed them.” Aphek was a city of the tribe of Asher. It was the scene of the licentious worship of the Syrian God, Aphrodite. Aphek means stronghold or tight place. A tight place causes one to: • Feel closed in and claustrophobic… • Be unable to function to full potential… • Feel trapped by the circumstances… There are people in this room today that feel closed in by: • An addiction… • A relationship… • Health issues… • Career choices… • Financial difficulty… 

• Spiritual deficiencies… A little living in Aphek will cause one to be desperate for deliverance. There are people in your life who have tried to hem you in, telling you: • You can’t become… • You can’t do… • You can’t succeed… Someone needs to wake up this morning and decide to not allow the dissenters, who have moved us to and required us to live in Aphek, to rule the day any longer! We need to kick the dissenters to the curb and determine not to allow a dissenter to be a decider! Somebody shout, “You’re not keeping me in this tight place anymore!” 

Anybody feeling crowded in here today? Anybody feeling restricted in here today? Anybody feeling closed in, in here today? “Can’t” never did anything and “wait” is what broke the bridge down! What you need is a chain breaker! Are you ready for God to bust a move in your life? We need to quit thinking in terms of what someone told us we can’t do; we serve a big God and we need to get delivered from small thinking! Someone shout, “I am finished with living in this tight place!” I can do little things by myself and with the help of others! What I need is for God to show up and help me drive a stake into the heart of Aphek! 

Psalm 118:5 (NKJV) “I called on the Lord in distress; The Lord answered me and set me in a broad place.” It drives me crazy to make a call and not get an answer! (Staff – Been with people when someone calls and they look at the call and click ignore – I know they have done the same thing to me!) (I can’t stand to call a business and talk to a machine during business hours!) The Psalmist said. “I called – He answered!” (A guy asked me, “Why is it I can get in contact with you almost anytime and I can’t get a return call from staff members?”) The Psalmist was making this call in a tight place, and when God answered he found himself in a large place! If you will call on Him in your tight place, He will take you to a large place! Someone say, “I am about to emerge from this tight place!” 

When God called Moses to deliver the Children of Israel out of Egypt He told Moses, “I have truly seen the oppression of My people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. (8) So I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up from that land to a good and large land, to a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites.” Exodus 3:8 (NKJV) Five spies from the tribe of Dan inquired of the Lord about possessing their inheritance and the Lord said, “When you go you will come to a secure people and a large land. For God has given it into your hands, a place where there is no lack of anything that is on the earth.” Judges 18:10 (NKJV) 

Someone high five your neighbor and say “I’m coming out of this tight place.” I believe this is the place God is trying to get His people to, but in order for us to live in a large place we MUST attack the restrictions in our lives! Are you going to take a passive posture toward your tight place or are you ready to aggressively attack the restrictions of the past? Somebody shout, “I’m done with living in this tight place!” Through the prophet, God was telling the King that if he wanted to get the country out of the restricted place they were in and expand their boundaries, they “must strike the Syrians at Aphek till you have destroyed them.” Someone in this house needs to strike the places in your life that have closed you in. 

If you are in a tight place: • With sinful behavior...call on Jehovah – Yahweh – The God of your salvation. • Attempting to break habitual practices… call on Jehovah Maccaddesh – The God who will sanctify you. • Needing guidance in your life...call on Jehovah Rohi – The God who will shepherd you. • With feelings of loneliness…call on Jehovah Shammah – The God who is present. • Struggling with health problems…call on Jehovah Rapha – The Lord our healer. • Struggling with low self-esteem…call on Jehovah Tsidkenu - The God who makes us righteous. • With financial tension…call on Jehovah Jireh – The God who provides. • With figuring out who you really are… call on Jehovah Nissi – The Lord our banner. 

• With turmoil in your life…call on Jehovah Shalom – The God who brings peace. • Leadership in your life…call on Jehovah Sabbaoth – The Lord of Hosts. • Not being able to understand an undeserved reversal…call on Jehovah Gmolah – The God of recompense. Who in this place is ready to finally strike the things that have closed you in? Shout it with me, “No more living in this tight place!” III. IN STRIKING AT APHEK THEY WERE TARGETING BENHADAD KING OF SYRIA… By the time Israel got around to actually striking Syria, Benhadad the son of Hazael (Haz-eel) had become king of Israel. 

The identifying characteristic of Benhadad was that he was a loud mouth. Anytime you identify a loud mouth you can count on one thing, they are always a bully. A bully is a person who hurts; frightens; or browbeats those who are smaller or weaker. (10 spies – “grasshoppers in our own sight.”) The greatest enemy of our life is noise. In reality because of what Jesus did at Calvary, all the devil has is noise. Never be surprised by the noise of the enemy. When you start pursuing your destiny he runs his motor mouth ninety to nothing. He says: • You won’t succeed… • If you try that, you will fail… • You won’t get that job… • You can’t start that business… • You are going to embarrass yourself… • You are going to die prematurely because… 

Somebody tell the devil to shut up! If you ever let a bully know that you are weak or timid about a thing, you will pay for the rest of your life in that area! He will hound you, pick on you, and browbeat you in that area again and again! A bully watches for your reaction! A bully is usually very perceptive when it comes to body language. Never let him see you sweat! Don’t sweat the small stuff and if God is on your side, everything is small stuff. A good example of this is that when Ahab was King of Israel, Benhadad had a heyday shouting insults, and those insults turned to real life reversals for the people of the land. When we entertain the insults of the loud mouth enemy they will turn to reversals in 

our lives and the dumbing-down of personal and corporate destinies. Look at what occurred between Ahab and Benhadad. (PLACE THE SCRIPTURES ON THE SCREEN A FEW VERSES AT A TIME BUT DON’T INCLUDE THE COMMENTS IN BLACK) 1 Kings 20:1- 14 (CEV) “King Benhadad of Syria called his army together. He was joined by thirty- two other kings with their horses and chariots, and together they marched to Samaria and attacked. (A bully never stands alone, he always recruits inferior chickens to join him) 2 Benhadad sent a messenger (He never showed up – he just sent his voice) to tell King Ahab of Israel, 3 “Ahab, give me your silver and gold, your wives, and your strongest sons!” 4 “Your Majesty,” Ahab replied, “everything I have is yours, including me.”(Really? Without having one shot fired, Ahab was ready to give away the treasury; his wives and 

children; as well as the families of his soldiers!) (Ahab was not only sinful he was a chicken!) (Don’t ever accept what you should be refusing) 5 Later, Benhadad sent another messenger to say to Ahab, “I already told you to give me your silver and gold, your wives, and your children. 6 But tomorrow at this time, I will send my officials into your city to search your palace and the houses of your officials. They will take everything else that you own.” (What a bully! What a loud mouth! He was not going to be satisfied with the surrender of people and things. Because Ahab was not moving fast enough he decided to come in and do a house to house search and take everything he wanted!) 7 Ahab called a meeting with the leaders of Israel and said, “Benhadad is causing real trouble. (You think?) He told me to give him my wives and children, as well as my silver and gold. And I agreed.” (Can you imagine the mood in the room at this point? 

Without ever saying anything to his leaders or troops the king had agreed to give their wives and sons away to this tyrant!) 8 “Don’t listen to him!” they answered. “You don’t have to do what he says.” (The commoners were smarter and braver than the chicken king.) 9 So Ahab sent someone to tell Benhadad, “Your Majesty, I’ll give you my silver and gold, and even my wives and children. But I won’t let you have anything else.” (What? Seriously? Even with the pledged support of his leaders and troops this chicken king couldn’t muster enough bravery to stand up to this loud mouth.) When Benhadad got his answer, 10 he replied, “I’ll completely destroy Samaria! There won’t even be enough of it left for my soldiers to carry back in their hands. If I don’t do it, I pray that the gods will punish me terribly.” (The loud mouth bully was hurling threats he couldn’t deliver – Isn’t that always the way it is?) 11 Ahab then answered, “Benhadad, don’t brag 

before the fighting even begins. Wait and see if you live through it.” (Did I just see a little sliver of bravery here?) 12 Meanwhile, Benhadad and the other kings had been drinking in their tents. But when Ahab’s reply came, he ordered his soldiers to prepare to attack Samaria, and they all got ready. (Don’t let your nerve evaporate at the first sign of danger) 13 At that very moment, a prophet ran up to Ahab and said, “You can see that Benhadad’s army is very strong. But the LORD has promised to help you defeat them today. Then you will know that the LORD is in control.” (It’s a glad day when the Lord shows up on the eve of battle.) 14 “Who will fight the battle?” Ahab asked. (LOL He thought he might have to get personally involved.) The prophet answered, “The young bodyguards who serve the district officials.” “But who will lead them into battle?” You gotta be kidding – He is the king!!!) Ahab asked. “You will!” the prophet replied.” 

If we are going to destroy the loud mouth bullies in our lives we must always get personally involved! Somebody tell the devil to shut up! The devil always sends his voice in the form of a bad report: (Talk to the hand) • Your mom died of cancer – You will too… • Your parents marriage didn’t last – Neither will yours… • Your husband is late coming home from work – He’s having an affair… • Your kid’s didn’t meet curfew – They have been in an accident… • The bills are past due – You and your family are going to be homeless… • Someone failed to shake your hand – They hate like you… 

Ahab offered no resistance! We must take a stand against the loud mouth bully of our souls! James 4:7 (CEV) “Surrender to God! Resist the devil, and he will run from you.” Benhadad came the second time, demanding more. If we offer no resistance against the thief we can bet he will be back talking louder and demanding more. John 10:10 (CEV) “A thief comes only to rob, kill, and destroy. I came so that everyone would have life, and have it in its fullest.” Listen to what the writer of Proverbs said about not standing up to the loud-mouthed bully. Proverbs 24:10 (NKJV) “If you faint in the day of adversity,Your strength is small.” The reason our strength is small is because we have got our exercise jumping to conclusions and looking for places to hide from the enemy! 

You cannot bargain with a bully, you have to bully a bully! Deuteronomy 33:27 (NKJV) “The eternal God is your refuge, And underneath are the everlasting arms; He will thrust out the enemy from before you, And will say, ‘Destroy!’” When the Prophet told Jehoash to fire the arrows toward Syria he was in effect saying: • Shoot the loud mouth… • Shoot the negative mouth… • Shoot the doubting mouth… • Shoot the confusing mouth… • Shoot the disruptive mouth… It is time to stand up to the bully and tell him to shut up! Matthew 28:18 (NKJV) “All authority has been given to Me in heaven and on earth.” God has all authority. He has given us access to His authority. Luke 10:19 (NKJV) “Behold, I give you the authority to trample on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy, and 

nothing shall by any means hurt you.” If one has authority, they have the right to access the power that comes with it. (Policeman – Semi) Somebody say, devil I am shutting you down! (Tom Dietz grandson, “You’re going down today.”) I challenge you today to pull your arrow back, while thinking about everything that's speaking against your destiny and fire that arrow with the velocity of a passionate push of finally shutting the mouth of the bully in your life. Aim your fully automatic, rapid firing gospel gun and start shooting bullets that say: • As for me, and my house… • Greater is he that is in me… • No weapon formed against me.... 

• If my people will humble themselves and pray... • You shall decide and decree a thing and it shall be established for you… Somebody tell the loud-mouthed bully of a devil to shut up! IV. THE KING WAS TOLD TO STRIKE THE GROUND… The last thing the man of God instructed the King to do seems very strange indeed. 2 Kings 13:18 (NKJV) “Then he (Elisha) said, “Take the arrows”; so he took them. And he said to the king of Israel, “Strike the ground;” so he struck three times, and stopped.” The striking of the ground with the arrows signified the number of times Israel would defeat Syria. When the King struck the ground three times and stopped, the Prophet, though on his deathbed, was incensed. 

The fact that the King only struck the ground three times exposed his lack of anger and passion for recovering what had been taken from them! The King was not thinking restitution; he was thinking relief! Most of the time we are looking for relief from trouble, but God is focused on complete victory and restitution for us! This was the case for the Children of Israel when the ten plagues were being released upon the Egyptians. Moses and the Israelites just wanted out - God wanted them repaid with interest! God hardened Pharaoh’s heart to keep him from letting the Children of Israel go after: • The plague of boils… Exodus 9:12 • The plague of hail… Exodus 10:1 • The plague of locusts… Exodus 10:20 • The plague of darkness… Exodus 10:27 • While the Children of Israel were hemmed in by the sea… Exodus 14:8 

What was God thinking? Did He not want the Israelites out of Egypt? Certainly He wanted them out, but the quickest path of escape is not always the best exit strategy! Exodus 3:21-22 (NKJV) “I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians; and it shall be, when you go, that you shall not go empty-handed. 22 But every woman shall ask of her neighbor, namely, of her who dwells near her house, articles of silver, articles of gold, and clothing; and you shall put them on your sons and on your daughters. So you shall plunder the Egyptians.” Though God’s idea for Israel was certainly deliverance, His ultimate purpose was restitution. Elisha became angry at the King. 2 Kings 13:19 (NKJV) “The man of God was angry with him, and said, “You should have struck five or six times; then you would have struck Syria till you had destroyed it! 

But now you will strike Syria only three times.” The man of God looked beyond what actually happened, to what was behind the failure to go crazy striking the ground. This was a passionless pursuit of an end to a national dilemma. Will you be satisfied with: • A loveless marriage? • Just enough finances to get by? • Cutting back on a bad habit? • Stealing less from your employer? • Losing your temper less frequently? Or, are you ready to go into the presence of a God who wants you to win complete victory and take the arrows of deliverance and beat the tar out of the devil? There are far too many Christians that are content to coexist with habits and vices and 

living far beneath their privileges in God. It is time for a remnant to arise and take the arrows of deliverance and decide to deal with the devil once and for all. Strike the enemy: • In faith… • In prayer… • Through obedience… • Through the Word… • With steadfastness… • With tenaciousness… I don’t just want to be delivered; I want everything the devil has stolen from me back...with interest! While it’s great to win a battle, it’s better to win the war! Douglas McArthur said, “In war, there’s no substitute for victory!” To King Joash, defeating Syria three times was a big deal, but God had so much more 

in mind. Joash would be happy with three defeats of Syria. The man of God wanted to trounce them until there was nothing left! Incidentally, Israel only defeated Syria three times and had to deal with the abuse inflicted upon them from these people for perpetual generations. Whatever you desire from God, keep striking again, and again, and again! If need be, strike the enemy until you have achieved not just a victory, but the victory! Don’t stop short of total victory! The fact is: • If you blink, you lose… • If you flinch, you lose… • If you quit, you lose… • If you stop short, you lose… • If you chicken out, you lose… 

God is looking for some people who will take the arrows of deliverance in hand and run the devil out of the county. Will you be one of those people, or are you going to live your life with just enough victory to make your life bearable? It is time for the people of God to rise up and break the chains that have had them bound! PLACES PREACHED: CT Church, Houston TX 9/13