+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Several years ago someone talked me into running a K (6.4 mile) | | race. Before the race started, everyone was excited. Some were | | talking about how good of shape they were in, others were bragging | | about how fast they were going to run and some were just jumping | | around and acting crazy. | | | | When they announced that the race would soon begin, people started to | | line up. The faster runners pushed toward the front while the slower | | runners headed toward the rear. I hate to be behind, so I moved to | | the front with the world class runners. Needless to say, that was the | | last time I saw them. | | | | I was doing pretty good until about the third mile when my muscles | | started aching. I was tired and weak, my side started hurting and I | | felt dehydrated. My body began to get numb and said, "Just Quit," but | | something inside of me said, "Don\'t focus on your flesh, focus on | | the finish line." Even though I couldn\'t see it with my eyes, I | | could see it in my mind. | | | | I decided to push past my feelings and keep running. Before long I | | had passed the six mile marker and could see the finish line ahead. | | Once the finish line was in sight my adrenaline started to kick in. I | | got my second wind and I sprinted to the finish. I actually ran | | faster at the end of the race than I did at the beginning. | | | | Recently while praying, I heard in my spirit the phrase, "Finish | | Strong." The only way to finish strong is to have your spiritual | | adrenaline kick in. Your spiritual adrenaline is JOY. For the joy | | of the Lord is your strength, (Nehemiah 8:10 NIV). Joy is a | | powerful force that works on the inside to strengthen you and help | | you accomplish great things. | | | | You may have some setbacks and stumbling blocks to overcome this year | | on your way to victory. Whether you are trying to expand your | | ministry, receive healing or break the spirit of debt...Joy is your | | answer. It will cause you to finish strong and receive the victors\' | | crown. | | | | Don't quit, throw in the towel or fall by the way side. God wants you | | to complete all that He has put in your heart to do. | | | | Paul faced many obstacles on his way, but he said, none of these | | things move me; ...so that I may finish my race with joy, (Acts | | 20:24 NKJV). Even in the midst of many tribulations, Paul said, I | | am overflowing with joy, (II Corinthians 7:4 Amplified Bible). | | | | Where does joy come from, and how do we receive it? Acts 2:28 says, | | You make me full of joy in Your presence, (NKJV). | | | | So, stay in God's presence a little longer today. You are about to | | get your second wind, and "Finish Strong." | | | | Great victories await you this year. The dreams and desires that you | | thought were out of reach will be yours. Impossibilities will become | | possibilities. The things which are impossible with men are | | possible with God, (Luke 18:27 NKJV). | | | | For God ...is able to \carry out His purpose and\ do | | superabundantly, far over and above all that we \dare\ ask or think | | \infinitely beyond our highest prayers, desires, thoughts, hopes, or | | dreams\, (Ephesians 3:20 Amplified Bible). | | | | Remember, God will not always put the grapes in your mouth, but He | | will put them within your reach, so, "Finish Strong." | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Finishing Strong, | | | | Joey Hipp | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+