# FIVE-FOLD CHURCH

TEXT: Ephesians 4:11-16 (NKJV) "And He Himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers, ^12 ^for the equipping of the saints for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, ^13 ^till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ; ^14 ^that we should no longer be children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, in the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting, ^15 ^but, speaking the truth in love, may grow up in all things into Him who is the head---Christ--- ^16 ^from whom the whole body, joined and knit together by what every joint supplies, according to the effective working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love."

INTRO: I think we can all agree that the First Century Church was a healthy, effective and powerful church. I hope we can all agree that we want to attend a healthy, effective and powerful church.

Though times and culture have changed over the past twenty-one century's it is my opinion that the words of the Apostle Paul to the Ephesians is still relevant in the twenty first century church. What it took to build a healthy, effective and powerful church in the first century, the same will be required in the twenty first century.

It seems to me, the way to build a healthy, effective and powerful church is to get up under the authority of Jesus and His delegated authorities, the apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers. When this occurs, we become equipped to do the work of the ministry!

The modern-day church has retreated into isolation and forfeited its ministry model of the apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers -- in so doing, the church has surrendered its right to have a say in culture and the culture is reeling out of control!

All the while, the modern-day church sits idly by with no say, no seat at the table, and no influence.

Why? And how could this happen? I believe it is at least in part due to the denial of the five-fold ministry offered to the New Testament Church by Jesus, but rejected by ministers, churches and denominations. (We are a non-profit organization)

Even those who claim to embrace the five-fold ministry of the church, have little idea of what it should look like in the church and absolutely no idea of what it should look like in the marketplace.

The model of the modern-day church is a Pastor (s) who leads the church and does all the work while the people assume the position of spectators and cry FEED ME!

- The thumb represents the apostle -- The thumb is the only finger that can comfortably touch all the other fingers. The thumb enables the hand to grip, and when the hand is closed in the formation of a fist (Defensive or offensive posture), the thumb covers all the fingers. The (Thumb) apostle has a role in literally everything the (Hand) church does. Apostles set up government structures -- Apostles form kingdom culture. Apostles have authority over churches, cities, regions and countries -- Apostles attract resources -- Doors automatically open to apostles -- Apostles can make decisions with limited information and they are quick to make such decisions. Apostles bring revelation. Apostles in the generic sense are those sent to pioneer something new. For example, they are often called in to turn failing ministries around. They are missional from the word go. They plant churches and ministries almost effortlessly (Apostles -- Not Pastor's planted churches in the New Testament). They are either launching something new or tinkering with old systems to give new life to it. If they can't find a way to give new life to an old system they boldly take it out behind the barn and shoot it! (SHARK TANK -- MR. WONDERFUL) Apostles start movements. They become the architects of systems. If your church doesn't have a relationship with an Apostle, I can recommend one to you. MARKETPLACE APOSTLES turn around failing businesses, invent things, and start entrepreneurial business ventures.

- The index finger represents the prophet. The index finger is involved in turning the page and is also involved in direction, as in pointing the way. The prophet is the gift that should be utilized in giving direction to the church for forward motion. Prophets have a keen sense of knowing and can see things no one else can see. Prophets bring proclamation. When prophets speak to the corporate body they change the atmosphere and take the church to a new dimension. When prophets speak, yesterday's ceiling becomes today's floor. Prophets inform kingdom culture. Prophets hear what others do not hear, and see what others tend to miss. They foretell and forthtell. Prophets inspire in the people faithfulness to the Word of God, and adherence to the promises of God. Prophets bring hope for holding onto a promise until its delivery date. The prophet must be submitted to the authority of a local church and a local pastor. A prophet who is willing to do this is an inhouse prophet. Any prophet who is unwilling to submit in this way is an outhouse prophet. If your church doesn't have a relationship with a Prophet, I can recommend one to you. MARKETPLACE PROPHETS, speak hopeful messages to those who don't have a clue about the things of God (Explain this). As they do this repeatedly, the recipients begin to wonder and question how this believer can know these things, often before they happen. This gives the prophet an opportunity to point them to Jesus and disciple the individual.

- The middle finger represents the evangelist. The third finger on the hand is the longest finger. The reach of the evangelist should be greater than any other gift. Evangelists are gatherers. Evangelists not only win souls, they equip the local church to do the same. An evangelist has to win souls or they are not fulfilled. Rebecca said, "Give me children or I might as well die." This is the cry of every true evangelist. An evangelist is a gatherer of people. A true evangelist is a natural born recruiter to the cause. Most of the time an evangelist is a naturally infectious person who is able to win people to the Kingdom by finding unique ways of presenting the gospel. In the church a true evangelist inspires churches to have soul winning crusades where dozens if not hundreds come to faith in Christ (I only know 2 career Evangelists). They build systems called nets that can be easily implemented in the church and utilize people to do so who do not have an evangelistic bone in their body. If your church doesn't know a true Evangelist, I can recommend a couple Evangelists to you. The gift of the evangelist is an indoor/outdoor gift -- it is needed in the church but should primarily operate outside the four walls of the church in the marketplace. MARKETPLACE EVANGELISTS are particularly gifted at enthusing others about what they stand for, selling the significance of their work, company, or product outside the group itself. Evangelists are salespeople. The key is to get them, in the course of their work and relationships in the world, to use their sales skills to introduce a lost world to Jesus. We must not forget the middle finger is strategically located between the index and ring finger. Every evangelist should have a pastor and prophet speaking into their lives.

<!-- -->

- The ring finger represents the pastor. The pastor is married to the church. The pastor is the protector of the church. The pastor brings nutrition (Feeds). The pastor loves the church as his own body. The pastor sets the spiritual temperature in the church. The pastor NEVER runs from danger (My experience with a guy who said "The Lord told me that it is time for you to move on.") Pastors are called to nurture spiritual development, maintain communal health, and engender loving community among the people of God. Pastors are natural born care givers. They have a gentle bedside manner. Pastors can sit patiently and listen to people drone on and on about their issues, and never lose interest! When someone sneeze's a pastor is there to wipe their nose. Pastors have a unique ability to affirm people and hold them up as they walk through weaknesses. Pastors create community and bring healing to the body of Christ. The ring finger is strategically located between the middle finger (Evangelist), and the little finger (The teacher). No pastor will be effective without being connected to those who reach people and those who disciple people. Without an evangelist and teacher there will be no one to pastor. MARKETPLACE PASTORS encircle themselves with needy people and figure out a way to bring hope, healing and health to the situation. They gather people around causes. They give leadership in difficult times and situations. They are always a part of the solution and never a part of the problem. They use their abilities to point people to Christ and His church.

<!-- -->

- The little finger (Pinky) represents the teacher. The pinky, though small is extremely important. The pinky can go where none of the other fingers are comfortable going. When reading, we often use the pinky to mark our place or to highlight a passage. The teacher is vital to the success of the church. The teacher brings explanation. Teachers are those who are effective trainers and inspirers of learning. They are philosophers, thinkers, people who understand ideas and how they shape human life. The teacher mediates wisdom and understanding. In the church this philosophical type brings comprehensive understanding of the revelation of God's Word that has been bequeathed to the church. They spend incredible amounts of time digging out unique passages and revelatory words. Then they deliver these truths to the body of Christ in a way that is easy to understand. The pinky is ALWAYS overshadowed and inferior (Submissive) to the ring finger (The Pastor). MARKETPLACE TEACHERS find ways to utilize their gifts to deliver all kinds of educational material. They also find ways to unwrap the mysteries of God and His Gospel to a world that is Biblically illiterate. They should use their teaching gifts to disciple people in the breakroom, restaurant, coffee shop, and home group.

A tragic truth is that most churches and denominations do not adequately embrace each of these ministry gifts. If this is not being highlighted in the church there is a zero percent chance that these gifts are operating outside the church. I believe these gifts were intended for the modern-day church, but I am equally convinced that they are intended for the marketplace. These gifts were given to the church, "For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry." These gifts are indoor/outdoor gifts. They perfect the saints -- The saints are to learn to function in them and then take them on the road - in the marketplace! When this occurs, I believe we will see the end time harvest we have prayed for and talked about.

CONCLUSION:

I believe:

- Apostles beget apostles...

- Prophets beget prophets...

- Evangelists beget evangelists...

- Pastors beget pastors...

- Teachers beget teachers...

Procreation was a good idea God had for filling up the world and I believe the procreation of these gifts in the church and marketplace will fill up the church!

In 2001 Peter Wagner predicted "The five-fold ministry gifts will be restored to the twenty-first century church." (Sis. Eubanks)

(fivefoldministry.com)

(ORDER THIS SIX PART SERIES AT MY TABLE -- CD'S OR DVD'S)