FROM GENERATION TO GENERATION INTRO: In the latter part of the book of First Chronicles, King David was coming to the close of his forty-year reign over Israel. Under the reign of David Israel knew days of exhilarating victories, and devastating defeats! (Not to uncommon for a leader) From bringing the Ark home to Jerusalem, to 70,000 people dying because he numbered the people against the known will of God! David’s own personal life paralleled that of the Kingdom! From killing Goliath, to sinning with Bathsheba! In the latter part of the book of First Chronicles David was preparing to coronate his son Solomon. As he addressed the people, he made a statement that should be a shining light to all 

leaders and people. "So now I charge you in the sight of all Israel and of the assembly of the Lord, and in the hearing of our God: Be careful to follow all the commands of the Lord your God, that you may possess this good land and pass it on as an inheritance to your descendants forever.” David’s passion to make sure the next generation did not have to repeat his failures and fight his giants, should be a constant reminder in the mind of every one of us. David wanted to make sure a proper generational exchange happened between he and his son, as well as between his son and his son’s descendants. The word “exchange” is defined in the following way: “To give something in return for something received.” 

Forty years earlier, David received a deeply divided, war torn nation, and over the next four decades he guided it into a position of peace and prosperity. Over the forty-year period of his reign, David had secured the support of his son Solomon, and Solomon’s generation. Great leaders ALWAYS invest in, and garner the support, of the next generation. David’s gift of the Kingdom to the next generation did not come without strings attached. A generational exchange always comes with strings attached. 1 Chronicles 28:9- 10 (NIV) “So now I charge you in the sight of all Israel and of the assembly of the Lord, and in the hearing of our God: Be careful to follow all the commands of the Lord your God, that you may possess this good land and pass it on as an inheritance to your descendants forever.” 10 Consider now, for the LORD has chosen you to build a house as the sanctuary. Be strong and do the work.” 

In my generation I was handed a sacred trust of keeping the message pure. I have not failed that test! I am sure there are methods that my father’s generation is not excited about, but I have kept the sacred trust of the message! How can we affect a proper Generational Exchange? I. CAPITALIZE ON WHAT WE HAVE RECEIVED FROM THE PAST… The Kingdom is bigger than any individual person. Generation after generation has passed from the stage of action, but the work of God goes on, from generation to generation. (Story of CT Church – Oaklawn, Magnolia Park, Christian Temple – E.M. Yates 52 years – O. C. Bates 25 years – Don Nordin going on 23 years) (PLACE PICTURES OF MAGNOLIA PARK & OAKLAWN - E.M. YATES & O.C. BATES ON THE SCREEN ) 

Regarding Community Transformation Church, I’m not sure that those who met in Magnolia Park, or the Oaklawn churches, fully understood the impact of what they were beginning. But they were faithful to do what they could do, and then passed it on to us. We are going to do what we can, and then gracefully pass it on to the next generation. Those early pioneers who were a part of Oaklawn and Magnolia Park, couldn’t have imagined the structure we are meeting in today! (Or 8 campuses in 2 states – 8 residential treatment centers in 5 states – A ranch that rescues 8 to year-old girls that have been trafficked…) Do you think they could have imagined the impact this church would have on the world through missions? I seriously doubt it! But they were faithful in what had been placed in their 

hands, and when the time came, they made a generational exchange. What will history record of us? Will it record, they used up what was given to them and left the next generation to fend for themselves? Or will we provide something better for our children and grandchildren? John F. Kennedy said, “We have the power to make this the best generation of mankind in the history of the world, or to make it the last.” I issue the following challenge: Let us rise and capitalize on what has been given to us! Are we up for a generational exchange? II. SEIZE THE OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE IN THE PRESENT... King David was painfully aware of all the responsibilities and pitfalls of life in leadership. David was also cognizant of the fact that when you assume the role of leadership over a group 

of people, it will become necessary to exercise authority from time to time. If we are going to seize the opportunities available in the present, we must do five things: • Discover Gods will for us as a corporate body of believers… • Shut out the distractions and ignore the detractors that threaten to derail us… • Look to God for the ability to rise to the challenge… • Call the necessary resources into our hands… (Material resources - Human resources – Divine resources - We can call those things that are not as though they were!) • Place the resources where they belong… (I release a spirit of generosity and liberality on this congregation!) A generational exchange cannot be done without these factors being in play. If we are unwilling to do these things now, we will find 

ourselves empty-handed at the generational exchange ceremony! (As we speak, this is where the baby-boomers & America are headed) Martin Luther King said, “We will have to repent in this generation not merely for the vitriolic words and actions of the bad people, but for the appalling silence of the good people. “ The twelve spies were never asked to decide whether Israel could or should conquer the Promised Land! They were sent to develop a military strategy that would insure the transfer of ownership from illegal squatters to rightful owners! (Can anyone name the two spies that gave a good report? – Can anyone name the ten spies that gave a bad report?) Do you want to be a Caleb or Joshua, or do you want to be one of those other cats? Are we up to a generational exchange? 

## III. PROVIDE SOMETHING BETTER FOR THE FUTURE… David provided something better to Solomon, than he received from Saul. But we must remember, he did not do it alone. Contributors to David’s lifelong vision included: • Family and friends… (When David killed Goliath, Saul asked, “Whose son is this?) • Trusted advisors… • His mighty men… • The army and arsenal of Israel… • The constant help of the Lord… A generational exchange is not as easy as it sounds – That is why so few people do it well! In the generational exchange between David and Solomon: • The Priests and Levites were prepared to assist in the construction of this place of worship… • Every skilled person in the nation was ready to help… (Carpenters, plumbers,

electricians, welders, painters, heavy equipment operators, landscapers, interior decorators, cooks, bottle washers, butlers, bankers, bakers, and candlestick makers etc...) • The leaders were prepared to get their hands dirty in the work… • The people were ready to follow directives… • David was prepared to place his uninhibited support behind Solomon… This church has been brought to this point because the people of the past have given sacrificially of themselves. Can you imagine how many resources; gifts; and abilities have been contributed over time so this church could be where it is today? If those who have gone before us were called upon to do what they could (Make sacrifices), we must be willing to make the same kind of 

sacrifice so that we can provide something significant in this generational exchange! Are we up to a generational exchange? CONCLUSION: David issued a challenge to the people in the form of a question. 1 Chronicles 29:5 (NIV) “Who is willing to consecrate himself today to the Lord?" Notice the response of the people. 1 Chronicles 29:6 (NIV) “Then the leaders of families, the officers of the tribes of Israel, the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds, and the officials in charge of the king's work gave willingly.” What a response! This is exactly the kind of response we must have if we hope to conduct a successful generational exchange. 

Are we up to a generational exchange? Better yet, are you up to a generational exchange? Am I up to a generational exchange? To please God, we must buy into a vision somewhere. Can you think of a better vision in this City? Do you think there is another church that wants to reach this city more than Community Transformation does? I urge you to reach out by faith and get a handful of this vision, do what you can to improve on it, and then gracefully hand it to the next generation. • Disciple… • Empower… • Serve… • Send…