1. John 1:14 And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace andtruth.

> Jesus came walking in grace and truth. > > If all one has is grace, they overlook everything and allow everything > in their lives. No boundaries -- A road ha shoulders for a reason -- > The shoulder of a road is there to rescue a driver from a ditch. > > Be careful to not be so grace filled that you cannot be called out, or > that you cannot call others out. > > Jesus came full of grace and truth. > > What is truth? His Word is truth -- We can know the Word and be Word > wielding Christians and still be out of bounds. If all we have is > truth we are dangerous. The truth is not supposed to be used to > brutalize others, the truth will make us free! > > Ephesians 4:15 "Speak the truth in love..." Don't just speak it, speak > it in a life giving way. > > The message we preach and the life we live must be seasoned grace and > truth! > > When speaking the word we must avoid extremes -- Stay in the middle of > the road -- Stay away from religious fads, which lead to heresy. > > Difference between truth and honesty.

2. John 1:17

> For the law was given through > Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. > > Moses came off the mountain with the tables of the law written with > the finger of God, on a cold hard tablet of stone. The people wanted > it that way! "All that He requires we will do." The people chose the > harsh path of the law. > > When Jesus came He changed all of that -- He brought grace and truth > to the table! We seem to want to hold everyone else to the letter of > the Law, but we want grace for ourselves! It doesn't work that way! > The law of sowing and reaping is in effect for everything we do! > Everything! > > Let's do our best to operate in grace and truth -- That will make us > seem more like Jesus!