The book of Hebrews is one of my favorite books in the Bible. This Epistle is loaded with tremendous nuggets of spiritual truth that can be adapted to everyday twenty-first century life. I have recently been reading in the book of Hebrews in my private devotions. As usual I began to notice some things I have never noticed before. The sixth chapter began to come alive to me, and I want to look at it with you in this article. There are three things I want us to focus our thoughts on today; Good Works; Hope; Faith & Patience:

Good Works: Hebrews 6:10 "God is not unjust; he will not forget your work and the love you have shown him as you have helped his people and continue to help them." When someone blesses us in some way, we try to find a way to show our gratitude. When someone blesses our children, we are more grateful than we would have been if they had blessed us. The writer here is saying that God will bless those who bless his children This is a promise as old as Abraham. God said "I will bless them that bless you, I will curse them that curse you." If you want the blessing of God, find a way to bless one of his children. If you have done your part to bless God's children, wait patiently because God has a plan in the works to bless you! If, on the other hand, you have been involved in tearing down God's family you will no doubt receive punishment if there is no repentance and restitution. Believe me, I would much rather be found blessing God's family, rather than fighting his family.

Hope: Verse talks about "...Hope to the end." Then Verse 18 say's that "...We might have strong consolation, having fled for refuge to lay hold of the Hope set before us." Verse 19 say's "Hope is the anchor of the soul, sure and steadfast, and takes us behind the veil." What is this Hope? The word Hope comes from the Greek word Elpis, and means confidence. What confidence is capable of anchoring our soul's (Mind, will & emotions) in the midst of lifes storms? Confidence that the blood of Jesus is enough to cover all of our sin's, past, present & future! Confidence in His ability to keep us in the here and now! Confidence in His ability and willingness to meet all my needs! Confidence in His soon return!

It is possible to be involved in Good Works, and have your Confidence rightly directed and still never be able to get to the place in God that you feel your prayers are going to be answered. Hebrews 6:12 "We do not want you to become lazy, but to imitate those who through faith and patience inherit what has been promised." We are strongly admonished here to follow the example of Faith and Patience set by those who obtained promises. Speaking of Abraham Hebrews 6:15 say's "And so after waiting patiently, Abraham received what was promised."