# I WILL BUILD MY CHURCH

Blue denotes power point slide

Brown denotes instructions to technician

TEXT: Matthew 16:13-19 (NKJV) "When Jesus came into the region of Caesarea Philippi, He asked His disciples, saying, "Who do men say that I, the Son of Man, am?" So they said, "Some say John the Baptist, some Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets." He said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" Simon Peter answered and said, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God." Jesus answered and said to him, "Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jonah, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but My Father who is in heaven. "And I also say to you that you are Peter, and on this rock I will build My church, and the gates of Hades shall not prevail against it. "And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven."

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | INTRO: In this passage of Scripture, Jesus makes a bold and | | forward thinking prediction concerning the Church He was about to | | birth. Really, this is the Vision statement for the New Testament | | Church! | | | | Jesus lets us know that what He is predicting is not something which | | may or may not come to pass; it WILL be fulfilled! | | | | I. THE POWER OF THE VISION IS BASED IN THE PERSON -- "I" | | | | The "I" here is the same "I am" which sent Moses to | | Egypt. He is the: (PLACE ON THE SCREEN ONE AT A TIME) | | | | - Eternal one... | | | | - All powerful one... | | | | - Self-existent one... | | | | - All knowing one... | | | | - Omnipresent one... | | | | This is the same person which the prophet Isaiah spoke of! Isaiah | | 6:1-7 (NKJV) "In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the | | Lord sitting on a throne, high and lifted up, and the | | train of His robe filled the temple. Above it stood | | seraphim; each one had six wings: with two he covered his face, with | | two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. And one cried to | | another and said: "Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of | | hosts; The whole earth is full of His | | glory!" And the posts of the door were shaken by the | | voice of him who cried out, and the house was filled | | with smoke. So I said: "Woe is me, for I am undone! Because I am a | | man of unclean lips, And I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean | | lips; For my eyes have seen the King, The Lord of | | hosts." Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having | | in his hand a live coal which he had taken with the tongs from the | | altar. And he touched my mouth with it, and said: "Behold, this | | has touched your lips; Your iniquity is taken away, And your sin | | purged." Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying: | | "Whom shall I send, And who will go for Us?" Then I said, "Here am I! | | Send me." | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | This is the same person which met with John the Revelator on the | | Island of Patmos. Revelation 1:8 (NKJV) "I am the | | Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End," says the | | Lord, "who is and who was and who is to come, the | | Almighty." | | | | Jesus, the great "I Am" is the founder and finisher of the | | Church! | | | | II. THE PROMISE OF THE FULFILLMENT OF THE VISION IS SECURE -- "I | | will" | | | | The verb "will" is in future tense! He is saying the building | | of the Church "will" unquestionably come to pass. (LEAVE ON | | THE SCREEN UNTIL THE NEXT SLIDE) The reason the construction of the | | Church is so secure is because He (Jesus) is the architect and | | builder! | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+ | Numbers 23:19 (NKJV) "God is not a man, that He should lie, Nor a | | son of man, that He should repent. Has He said, and will | | He not do? Or has He spoken, and will He not make it good?" 2 | | Corinthians 1:20 (NKJV) "For all the promises of God in Him are | | Yes, and in Him Amen, to the glory of God through | | us." | | | | III. THE PROCESS OF BUILDING THE CHURCH IS SUPERNATURAL --"I will | | build" | | | | To begin with, no man can build God a church! He is building His own | | church! Some folks think they are the builder when in fact; we are | | the material being used in the construction process of the Church! | | Ephesians 2:19-22 (NKJV) "You are no longer strangers and | | foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the | | household of God, having been built on the | | foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being | | the chief cornerstone, in whom the whole building, | | being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the | | Lord, in whom you also are being built together for | | a dwelling place of God in the Spirit." | | | | IV. THE OWNERSHIP OF THE CHURCH IS DIVINE -- "My Church" | | | | Some folks want to own and operate the church! The proprietorship of | | the Church is not earthly it is Heavenly! If the ownership is earthly | | it will fail in complicated times; if it is Heavenly it will succeed | | without regard to difficulty! (LEAVE ON THE SCREEN UNTIL THE NEXT | | SLIDE) Ephesians 4:11-16 (NKJV) "He Himself gave some to be | | apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and | | teachers, for the equipping of the saints for the work of | | ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, | | till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge | | of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of | | the fullness of Christ; that we should no longer be children, | | tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by | | the trickery of men, in the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting, | | but, speaking the truth in love, may grow up in all things into | | Him who is the head---Christ--- from whom the whole | | body, joined and knit together by what every joint supplies, | | according to the effective working by which every part does its | | share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in | | love." Colossians 1:18 (NKJV) "He is the head of | | the body, the church, who is the beginning, the | | firstborn from the dead, that in all things He may have the | | preeminence." | | | | Many local churches struggle with a strong personality wanting to | | have ownership in the church. This is not a problem which is unique | | to our day; it has been going on since the foundation of the Church | | was initiated. John writes about this in his third letter, verse 9 | | (NKJV) "I wrote to the church, but Diotrephes, who loves to have | | the preeminence among them, does not receive us." | | | | ILLUSTRATION: | | | | (Many years ago I was preaching and throughout my sermon I continued | | to state and restate "This is not my church; this is not your | | church; this is God's church!" One lady finally responded by saying, | | "This is my church!" The sad part is, that it was her church, and | | it failed! Any church owned and operated by man will fail!) | | | | V. THE BEGINNING OF THE CHURCH WAS HUMBLE BUT THE END RESULT OF THE | | CHURCH WILL BE GLORIOUS! "I will build my CHURCH!" | | | | Three stages of the Church are clearly seen in Scripture: (PLACE ON | | THE SCREEN ONE AT A TIME) | | | | - The concept of the Church was initiated in the age of guilt! | | Genesis 3:14-15 (NKJV) "The Lord God said to the | | serpent: "Because you have done this, You are cursed more than all | | cattle, And more than every beast of the field; On your belly you | | shall go, And you shall eat dust All the days of your life. | | And I will put enmity Between you and the woman, And between your | | seed and her Seed; He shall bruise your head, And you shall bruise | | His heel." Ephesians 1:4 (NKJV) "He chose us in | | Him before the foundation of the world, that we should | | be holy and without blame before Him in love." | | | | - The Church is being supernaturally constructed in the Dispensation | | of Grace! Colossians 3:1-4 (NKJV) "If then you were raised with | | Christ, seek those things which are above, where | | Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on | | things above, not on things on the earth. For you died, and your | | life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is our life | | appears, then you also will appear with Him in | | glory." | | | | - The completion of the Church will occur in the final age! | | Revelation 21:1-7 (NKJV) "Now I saw a new heaven and a new | | earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away. | | Also there was no more sea. Then I, John, saw the holy city, New | | Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride | | adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice | | from heaven saying, "Behold, the tabernacle of God is with | | men, and He will dwell with them, and they shall be | | His people. God Himself will be with them and be their | | God. "And God will wipe away every tear from their | | eyes; there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying. There | | shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away." | | Then He who sat on the throne said, "Behold, I make all things | | new." And He said to me, "Write, for these words are true and | | faithful." And He said to me, "It is done! I am | | the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End. I will give of | | the fountain of the water of life freely to him who thirsts. | | "He who overcomes shall inherit all things, and I will be his | | God and he shall be My son." | | | | CONCLUSION: | | | | Jesus said, "I will build my Church." (PLACE ON THE SCREEN ONE AT | | A TIME) | | | | - He has... | | | | - He is... | | | | - He will... | | | | I want to be a part of His Church, don't you? | +-----------------------------------------------------------------------+

 -----------------------------------------------------------------------

 -----------------------------------------------------------------------