LET A MAN EXAMINE HIMSELF TEXT: I Cor. 11:27-29 (T-28) INTRO: There are two ordinances that we observe: Water Baptism and Communion. Within 1500 years after that very simple beginning of our Lord’s celebration of Passover with His disciples, the Lord’s Table became a controversial and divisive subject in the institutional church. There are those who teach that with each celebration of the Lord’s Supper, the body of Christ was broken again and the blood of Christ was spilled again. They believe that during the act of blessing the elements at each celebration of the Eucharist, the bread literally becomes the body of Christ and the juice/fruit of the vine literally becomes the blood of Christ. This position is called transubstantiation. Some of the Reformation brethren argued that the Communion bread does not become the literal body of Jesus, but the body of Christ is present with the bread. And the communion cup does not become the literal blood of the Lord, but the blood of the Lord is present with the cup. Theologians 

refer to this doctrine as consubstantiation. Others said that the bread is not the physical body of Christ and the body of Christ is also not present with the bread; the cup is not the blood of the Lord and the blood of the Lord is not present with the cup. These reformers saw the bread and cup simply as emblems-symbols meant to remind participants of the Last Supper and its significance for believers throughout their earthly life. This debate over the elements of Communion continues today. There is further dispute among us as to whether we should eat from one loaf or each have a separate wafer; whether we should drink from one cup or each have a separate cup; whether we should serve communion once a week, once a month, or a couple of times a year. It would do as well to remember that Jesus just said, as often as we observe this ordinance to do it in remembrance of Him and what these emblems represent. All of these theological controversies tend to distract from the central 

purpose of Communion: let a man (person) examine himself. This is the sobering challenge of Communion! It’s all too easy for us to let the elements of Communion become so common that we no longer discern any representation or reminder of our Lord’s body in the bread…of our Lord’s blood in the cup. When we no longer discern these elements to be other than simply the bread and the cup, how does it benefit us to participate in this commandment of our Lord? NOTICE OUR TEXT 1 Corinthians 11:28 (NKJV) But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. 

Corinthians 11:28 (TMSG) Examine your motives, test your heart, come to this meal in holy awe. Let each man look into his own heart. (TCNT) 1) This is a command and, therefore, not to be taken lightly. 

Self-examination is the most important examination. A) Many times as it pertains to our physical body, a self-examination is what brings about concern that takes us to the doctor for a professional exam. 1) Its safe to say that no one else is more familiar with our body/ mind that we are. We often know when something is not exactly right before anyone else does. 2) Same is true of our spiritual examination. We know something isn’t right and we go to the expert, (the One who made us!) to bring about the cure. 3) Paul is telling these Corinthian believers (and us) to examine our life. 4) We need to ask ourselves honestly whether if were offered a choice between having our ultimate earthly dreams fulfilled OR being ushered into the presence of the Lord, we could with Paul say sincerely, Philippians 1:23 (NKJV) 23…..To depart and be with Christ,..is far better. 

5) Could you and I honestly say with Paul, Philippians 1:21 (NKJV) For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. (?) 6). Self-examination gives me the opportunity to make sure that all is well and, if not, to correct it like you would in a mirror before going somewhere. 7) It is a time to pray for God to reveal to us anything in our life that is not in line with His will-that would bring disgrace to Him. To realize that this is more than “just going through the motions.” 2) SELF-EXAMINATION AFFORDS ME THE OPPORTUNITY TO DO THREE THINGS A). It affords me the opportunity to look at my past. Reflect for a few moments on your life. Look at the part of it that is BEHIND you. Your past is past because of Calvary! 

1) Don’t let the sins of the past, those old wounds ruin your present. Remember, Romans 8:1 (NKJV) There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus,  who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. Romans 8:1 - 

(TMSG) 1…….Those who enter into Christ’s being-here-for-us no longer have to live under a continuous, low- lying black cloud. A new power is in operation. The Spirit of life in Christ, like a strong wind, has magnificently cleared the air, freeing you from a fated lifetime of brutal tyranny at the hands of sin and death. 2). The Holy Spirit does not convict us of forgiven sin. That’s the oppression of the enemy. God doesn’t remember forgiven sin! 3). as you look at your past, be sure that every part of our past has been brought under the blood of Jesus. Be sure there is nothing hidden. Let’s open wide 

our heart’s door and allow the Lord who loved us enough to die for us to enter into every room of our past and to cleanse any lingering effects or anything we may have held back. Remember, He doesn’t force His way in. We must invite Him. B) Secondly, It affords me the opportunity to focus on my life in the present tense, the here and now. 1)No doubt there are those this morning who desperately need to discern Christ’s body in this wafer and Christ’s blood in this cup . 2) We need to resolve issues between us and the Lord before an embarrassing rooster-crowing begins as it did for Peter and brings us to the attention of the public. a) Paul reminds us that if we judge ourselves, others won’t have to do it for us (it’s called mercy!) I Co. 11:31). 3). As you do this self-examination, be sure that everything has been brought under the blood of Jesus. Be sure 

there is nothing hidden. Again, let’s open wide our heart’s door and allow the Lord who loved us enough to die for us to enter into every room of our present and to cleanse any anything we may be holding back. 4) This morning is a great time to bring those difficult spiritual and emotional issues of our lives to Christ for cleansing by His blood. If you are weak in body this morning, may the Bread become life, strength, and healing to you. C). Thirdly, this self-examination affords me the opportunity to look at my future. And what a future it is….it’s out of this world…literally!! 1) As we celebrate at the Lord’s Table today, it would do as well to remember that the bread and the cup link us with a family of brothers and sisters in Christ that has been growing for some 2,000 years. 2) More of this family is in heaven than is on earth at this moment. 

They are among that great cloud of witnesses where time is no more. There is no past, present, or future for them. The race is run! The battle is over! They are not in time, they are in eternity! 3) If they could speak to us this morning and give us a glimpse of the life they now enjoy, we might reorder our priorities much more wisely; we might be more at peace. But, truth be told, if we have the faith in God’s Word that we’re supposed to have, we can do that now! 4) If the return of our Lord is delayed and we go by way of the grave, we will not view death as defeat….but as victory! For me to live is Christ, to die is gain…..I won! 5) We don’t look at death as defeat or disappointment. It is the ultimate victory for the child of God. It carries us into the presence of the Lord and puts us beyond the reach of temptation, testing, trial, and sin. The battle’s over; the victory’s been 

won, and ten thousand years, and we’ve have just begun! CONCLUSION Each of us needs to examine our ambitions, our motives, our goals, our dreams, and our desires. Examine yourself as you prepare to receive the Lord’s Supper. It’s been said that before the old general and former president, Dwight Eisenhower died he called for Billy Graham. He said I just want to make sure everything is alright before I cross over. As we come to the table this morning, let’s make sure everything is alright, and, if it isn’t, fix it now!!