THE YEAR OF REDEMPTION TEXT: Exodus 3:1-22 (I will not read the text but will encourage everyone to turn there) INTRO: As I was seeking the face of the Lord about what He would have for CT and it’s people for 2018 I felt led to do some research on what the meaning of the Jewish New Year was. The Jewish New Year actually starts in September of each year. What I discovered is that the Jewish New Year is the year 5778. Normally when the Jewish calendar is referred to the first number is dropped so it is the year 778. Because this is just one sermon I will not discuss all the implications of the year 778 but I do want to look at a few of them that I believe will have to do with what God is 

going to do in this church and in and through its people in 2018. The year 5778 is the year of “Redemption.” According to dictionary.com “redemption” is: (PLACE THESE ON THE SCREEN ONE AT A TIME AS I TALK ABOUT THEM – LEAVE ALL ON THE SCREEN FOR A WHILE SO PEOPLE CAN WRITE THEM DOWN OR SCREEN SHOT THEM) 1. An act of redeeming or atoning for a fault or mistake, or the state of being redeemed. 2. Deliverance; rescue. 3. Theology. deliverance from sin; salvation. 4. Atonement for guilt. 5. Repurchase, as of something sold. 6. Paying off, as of a mortgage, bond, or note. 7. Recovery by payment, as of something pledged. 

(Story of the call of Moses to deliver Israel) Exodus 3:16-17 (NKJV) “Go and gather the elders of Israel together, and say to them, ‘The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, appeared to me, saying, “I have surely visited you and seen what is done to you in Egypt; 17 and I have said I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites, to a land flowing with milk and honey.” In verse 16 the phrase “Surely visited” is “surely remembered” in the original. As many of you already know, each letter of the Hebrew alphabet is assigned a corresponding number. So when you consider the numbers 778 there is an entire array of important words and phrases that 

equal 778. The numerical value of the phrase, “surely remembered” (פקד תיפקד) is 778. These are the same words that are used earlier when Joseph (Who had a great run in Egypt) was dying. Genesis 50:24-25 (NKJV) “God will surely visit (Remember) you, and bring you out of this land to the land of which He swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.” 25 Then Joseph took an oath from the children of Israel, saying, “God will surely (Remember) visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here.” Joseph points to redemption and lets them know: • You are not staying in Egypt… • God is going to deliver you… • God is going to set the stage for redemption… • As good as Egypt has been to me, please don’t fail to let me participate on the day 

of redemption (Take my bones with you)… So when God spoke these two words to Moses He was intentionally letting Moses know the day of the Redemption of the Israelites was at hand! He said, tell the Israelites that the God of your forefathers has “Surely remembered you… I have seen what has been done to you in Egypt… And will bring you into a land that flows with milk and honey.” Before ever delving into what the Jewish New Year meant I felt the Lord impress upon me that 2018 would be the year of restoration for CT and its adherents. When I read that 5778 meant “Redemption” I knew immediately what the Lord was saying to this body of believers: (PLACE THE FOLLOWING THINGS ON THE SCREEN ONE AT A TIME AND ONCE THEY ARE ALL UP THERE LEAVE 

THEM THERE FOR A WHILE SO PEOPLE CAN WRITE THEM DOWN OR SCREEN SHOT THEM) • He is going to reverse past mistakes and sins… (If we will forsake sin – God will redeem everything sin has ripped from our hands) • He is going to deliver and rescue His people… (If you need deliverance or rescue, 2018 is your year – Begin setting the stage for your miracle) • He is going to bring our families from sin to salvation… (Chelsea Hernandez video) (If you have lost relatives – Break your silence – Start talking to them about their eternity – 2018 is the year of redemption) • He is going to atone for guilty verdicts and conscious’s… (Some of us have had guilty verdicts hung around our neck – Redemption is the expunging of the record – 2018 will be the year for each guilty conscious to be cleared – - 

Handwriting of ordinances against us will be cancelled - I hear the word RESET) • He is going to bring people and things back into our lives that we thought were a lost cause and missed opportunities… (People who have left this church are coming back – Get ready to welcome them with open arms – The promotion you were passed over for is going to happen in 2018 – The business opportunity that went south is on its way back north) • He is going to give us resources to cancel debt and retire debt early… (I hear Him saying for us to put a stop to bad spending habits – Quit swiping the credit card – Start tithing – Place resources toward debt retirement – I feel the Lord saying that whatever amount you put toward debt retirement, He will find a way of matching it through supernatural debt cancellation – I felt 

Him challenge me that whatever extra I put toward personal debt retirement to tithe that amount toward the debt of the church) • He is going to cause people and companies who have owed us bad debts that we have long since written off to pay it back… Exodus 3:21-22 (NKJV) “I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians; and it shall be, when you go, that you shall not go empty- handed. 22 But every woman shall borrow of her neighbor, namely, of her who dwells near her house, articles of silver, articles of gold, and clothing; and you shall put them on your sons and on your daughters. So you shall plunder the Egyptians.” God could have delivered Israel before the first plague but He hardened Pharaoh’s heart – Why? Because He had more in mind for Israel than deliverance – He intended to Redeem them – PAY BACK BABY! 

• He is going to PAY BACK with interest and penalties everything that has been lost or stolen… Borrow the costly stuff! • We are going to plunder the enemy… The word “Plunder” means “To snatch it away from.” • We are going to put the wealth on our sons and daughters… The things they took from the Egyptians were “put on their son’s and daughters.” When Redemption occurs it affects everyone in our circle of influence! CONCLUSION: (WORSHIP TEAM & ALTAR WORKERS COME FORWARD AT this POINT) Here is the roadmap to 2018 being a year of Redemption in this church and all of our lives. Psalm 34:14 (NKJV) “ Depart from evil and do good; Seek peace and pursue it.” Guess what? The numerical value of the two words “seek peace” is 778! 

(PLACE THE FOLLOWING THINGS ON THE SCREEN ONE AT A TIME. WHEN ALL THREE ARE UP THERE PLEASE LEAVE THEM THERE TEMPORARILY SO THE PEOPLE CAN WRITE THEM DOWN OR SCREEN SHOT THEM) Three things are called for here: • Depart from evil… (Quit sinning – Fix adversarial relationships – Stop doing stupid things! (Stop it video)) • Do good… (Start making better decisions – Make better friends – Start doing what you already know to do that is right – Tithing… Attending… Serving… Going…) • Seek Peace… (Be a peace maker rather than a peace keeper – A peace keeper is willing to give up core values and compromise principles to keep peace – Peacemakers stand on principle and cling to core values while reaching out to make peace) 

By acting in this way from below, we will awaken the Almighty from Above to bring the redemption. 2 Chronicles 7:14 (NKJV) “If My people who are called by My name will humble themselves, and pray and seek My face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin and heal their land.”