SERVING WELL TEXT: I Peter 4:10-12 (CEV) “Each of you has been blessed with one of God's many wonderful gifts to be used in the service of others. So use your gift well. 11 If you have the gift of speaking, preach God's message. If you have the gift of helping others, do it with the strength that God supplies. Everything should be done in a way that will bring honor to God because of Jesus Christ, who is glorious and powerful forever. Amen.” Ecclesiastes 9:10 (NKJV) “Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might; for there is no work or device or knowledge or wisdom in the grave where you are going.” 

INTRO: Someone said, “It is true that most people would like to serve God, but only in an advisory capacity!” Do you know anyone like that? I am not talking about anyone here today but I’m sure most of you know people who want to serve God and the church, if they could serve in an advisory capacity! (Anonymous letter) There are two non-negotiable elements to serving: • Serving requires hands-on activity... (Use a towel here – You know you have become a servant leader when your worship becomes serving others) • Serving requires commitment... At times, many of us attempt to avoid a Commitment to serve the Lord and the Church. (Chicken & Pig Missions Breakfast) 

Most people are willing to serve in some capacity: • If it is convenient... • If we feel adequate to the task... • If we weren’t afraid of success or failure... (The two unpardonable sins of life and ministry – Success & failure) There are at least three things that go into finding our place to serve Lord and others: • Gift Discovery... • Gift Giving... • Gift Deployment... I. GIFT DISCOVERY... Before I launch into this, let me say that in ministry, there will be times that we will need to engage in service outside our gift plex. In our Commitment to serve, we must be constantly on the lookout for ways that God has 

gifted us. When it comes to gifts, it is the responsibility of the believer to: • Discover the gift... • Develop the gift... • Properly use the gift... giftstest.com Don’t be afraid to make a short-term commitment in various areas until you find your place in the body of Christ! But for God’s sake, and the sake of His Kingdom, stop being a spectator and start being a participator. Once you discover where you are suited to serve, make a long-term commitment. My dad would say, “There is no time like the present.” “We are burning daylight” The King James say’s it this way - “We must work while it is yet day, for the night is coming in which no one will be able to work.” II. GIFT DEVELOPMENT 

It is one thing to have a gift and to identify what the gift is, it is something completely different to develop the gift. I fly all the time. There are many reasons there is a pilot and a co-pilot. One of the main reasons is that the co-pilot is logging hours and being developed, so that one day he can be trusted with his own crew. He is not going to be the captain until his skills have been properly developed. And for that I say, “Thank you Jesus. Thank you United. Thank you Southwest…” I became a Pastor when I was 19 years old! How many of you know that I needed a little gift development at 19? (Marriage counseling – Parenting) My church owes a great debt of gratitude to those who helped develop me! Gift development: • Takes time... 

• Requires a commitment on the part of the gifted... • Requires patience on the part of the instructor... • Involves a process of trial and error... “He who has never made a mistake has never done anything. Doing nothing is the biggest mistake of all” III. GIFT DEPLOYMENT... I Peter 4:10 (CEV) “Each of you has been blessed with one of God's many wonderful gifts to be used in the service of others. So use your gift well.” Charles Kingsley said, “Have your tools ready and God will find you some work.” The Lord told J. Hudson Taylor, "I am going to evangelize China, and if you walk with me, I will do it through you." 

For Kingdom expansion to occur, it is urgent for all believers to deploy their gifts! Will this church be built on the capacity of the pastor and his family, or the capacity of the body collectively? We all need to be deployed now! Wilbert Welch chancellor of Grand Rapids Baptist College said, "It’s time we stopped staring up the steps and started steadily stepping up the stairs!" We have already been commissioned, Jesus said, “Go and make disciples of all nations...” Sadly, the want ads in the modern-day church look like this: • For Sale – One cross, almost new, top heavy, cramps my style as I am trying to keep up with the world... • For Sale - One talent, slightly shelf-worn unused for several years, may need a little updating... 

• For Sale - One bundle of seldom used opportunities, among these; church attendance; personal witnessing; tithing; and serving... • For Sale - Badly used influence, buyer will need to make repairs and use it more carefully... These items may be seen any time in the basement of my home at the corner of Careless Avenue and Neglect Street. Signed: Careless Christian CONCLUSION: You don’t have to wait until you can serve perfectly, just make a commitment to start serving! You should start serving where you are and start serving now! You are released for ministry! Deploy now! (Failure to launch) 

Ecclesiastes 9:10 (NKJV) “Whatever your hand finds to do, do it with your might; for there is no work or device or knowledge or wisdom in the grave where you are going.”