The Heart of a Volunteer I plan to use the word “servant” today, in place of the term “volunteer.” "Don't just do what you have to do to get by, but work heartily, as Christ's servants doing what God wants you to do. And work with a smile on your face, always keeping in mind that no matter who happens to be giving the orders, you're really serving God" (Ephesians 6:6, The Message). Matthew 20:25-28 In the Bible, greatness is defined by servant-hood. We talk about “serving God,” but this phrase can be a bit nebulous (vague or ill-defined). Serving God means loving and serving others. Having the heart of a servant is incredibly important. God shaped you for service, not for self-centeredness. Without a servant’s heart, you will be tempted to misuse 

your gifts and abilities for personal gain. You will also be tempted to use it as an excuse to exempt yourself from meeting some needs. Your servant’s heart will reveal your depth of maturity. The measure is our willingness to serve. God often tests our hearts by asking us to serve in ways we’re not used to. It is possible to serve in church for a lifetime without ever being a servant. This is because to be a servant, you must have a servant’s heart. How can you know if you have the heart of a servant? To check ourselves, let us look at six points: 1. Real Servants Make Themselves Available. 2 Timothy 2:4 No soldier in active service entangles himself in the affairs of everyday life, so that he may please the one who enlisted him as a soldier. Servants don’t fill up their time with other pursuits that could limit their availability. We can say in general that servants make themselves available to their masters. They want to be ready to jump into service when called on. A soldier is always ready, even ready to get up 

at 2am at boot camp. If you only serve when it’s convenient for you, you’re not a real servant. Real servants do what’s needed, even when it’s inconvenient. A good test: Are you available to God any time? Can he mess up your plans without you becoming resentful? Being a servant means giving up the right to control your schedule and allowing God to interrupt it whenever He needs to. If you will remind yourself at the start of every day that you are God’s servant, interruptions won’t frustrate you as much, because your agenda will be whatever God wants to bring into your life. Remember all your time, every moment, belongs to God. It is all right to have plans but be ready and willing for God to upset them. Servants see interruptions as divine appointments for ministry and are happy for the opportunity to practice serving. 2. Real Servants Pay Attention To Needs. 

Servants are always on the lookout for ways to help others and always sensitive to others’ cries. When they see a need, they seize the moment to meet it, just as the Bible commands us: Galatians 6:10 Therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, especially to those who belong to the family of believers. When God puts someone in need right in front of you, He is giving you the opportunity to grow in servanthood. Opportunity comes – and goes. We can soon lose it if we don’t seize it. We miss many occasions for serving because we lack sensitivity and spontaneity. Great opportunities to serve never last long. They pass quickly, sometimes never to return. You may only get one chance to serve that person, so take advantage of the moment. Think about last week: were there opportunities to help which you did not seize? 3. Real Servants Do Their Best With What They Have. Servants don’t make excuses, procrastinate, or 

wait for better circumstances. Servants never say, “One of these days” or “When the time is right.” They just do what needs to be done. Ecclesiastes 11:4 Whoever watches the wind will not plant; whoever looks at the clouds will not reap. (NIV) Ecclesiastes 11:4 If you wait for perfect conditions, you will never get anything done. (TLB) God expects you to do what you can, with what you have, wherever you are. Less-than- perfect service is always better than the best intention. One reason many people never serve is that they fear they are not good enough to serve. You may have heard it said, “If it can’t be done with excellence, don’t do it.” Well, Jesus never said that! The truth is, almost everything we do is done poorly when we first start doing it - that’s how we learn. None of us can do a perfect job. If you want to wait until you are perfect you’ll never start. You may not have much, but offer what you have. Grow with it as you do it, whether it be praying for the sick, leading in prayer, preaching or whatever. As God’s call is 

there, His hand is there. 4. Real Servants Do Every Task With Equal Dedication. Colossians 3:23 Whatever you do, work at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for men. Whatever they do, servants “do it with all their heart” The size of the task is irrelevant. The only issue is, does it need to be done? You will never arrive at the state in life where you’re too important to help with menial tasks. God will never exempt you from the mundane (dull, boring, everyday, unexciting, routine, monotonous). It’s a vital part of your character building. “If you think you are too important to help someone in need, you are only fooling yourself. You are really a nobody” (Galatians 6:3, NLT). It is in these small services that we grow like Christ. Jesus specialized in menial tasks that everyone else tried to avoid: washing feet, helping children, fixing breakfast, 

and serving lepers. Nothing was beneath him, because he came to serve. It wasn’t in spite of his greatness that he did these things, but because of it, and he expects us to follow his example (John 13:15). If we are not willing it means we do not have a servant’s heart. Small tasks often show a big heart. Your servant’s heart is revealed in little acts that others don’t think of doing. Here is an example - Paul gathered brushwood for a fire to warm everyone after a shipwreck (Acts 28:3). He was just as exhausted as everyone else. No task is beneath you when you have a servant’s heart. Great opportunities often disguise themselves in small tasks. The little things in life determine the big things. Don’t look for great tasks to do for God. Just do the not-so-great stuff, and God will assign you whatever he wants you to do. Before attempting the extraordinary, try serving in ordinary ways (Luke 16:10-12). There will always be more people willing to do 

“great” things for God than there are people willing to do the little things. It is God who will promote you when you can do the small things willingly. When you can do the small things He can trust you with more. 5. Real Servants Are Faithful To Their Ministry. Servants finish their tasks, fulfill their responsibilities, keep their promises and complete their commitments. They don’t leave a job half undone. They don’t quit when they get discouraged. They are trustworthy and dependable. Many people don’t know the meaning of commitment. These days, commitments are often too lightly made. People make commitments casually, then break them for the slightest reason without any hesitation, remorse or regret. Every week, churches and other organizations must improvise because volunteers didn’t prepare, didn’t show up, or didn’t even call to say they weren’t coming. Can you be counted on by others? 

Are there promises you need to keep, vows you need to fulfill, or commitments you need to honor? This is a test. God is testing your faithfulness. Small things are important. Being faithful in them is important. Maybe you only really enjoy 20% of what you do in ministry but never mind, still be faithful. Abraham, Moses, Samuel, David, Daniel, Timothy and Paul were all called “faithful” servants of God. If you pass the test, you’re in good company. Your reward is in eternity. 6. Real Servants Maintain A Low Profile. Servants don’t promote or call attention to themselves. Instead of acting to impress and dressing for success, they “put on the apron of humility, to serve one another” (1 Peter 5:5, TEV). If recognized for their service, they humbly accept it but don’t allow the recognition to distract them from their work. Eye-service is serving in order to impress people with how spiritual we are. This was a sin of the Pharisees. They turned helping 

others, giving, and even prayer into a performance for others. Jesus hated this attitude and warned, “When you do good deeds, don’t try to show off. If you do, you won’t get a reward from your Father in heaven” (Matthew 6:1, CEV). Self-promotion and servant-hood don’t mix. Real servants don’t serve for the approval or applause of others. They live for an audience of One. Paul said: “If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a servant of Christ” (Galatians 1:10). Real servants are content with quietly serving in the shadows. Joseph is a great example. He didn’t draw attention to himself, but quietly served Potiphar, then his jailer, then Pharaoh’s baker and wine taster, and God blessed that attitude. If you are serving in obscurity in some small place, feeling unknown and unappreciated - God knows you. You are where you are for a purpose! He has every hair on your head numbered. He knows what you do. CONCLUSION 1 Corinthians 15:58 Therefore, my dear brothers, stand 

firm. Let nothing move you. Always give yourselves fully to the work of the Lord, because you know that your labor in the Lord is not in vain. Do you want to give honor and joy to the Lord? Ask God to give you a servant’s heart. Do what God has called you to do. Humble yourself before Him. Do it all for His praise, not for the praise of others. Love people; Be friendly. Be committed! Be consistent. Find your rhythm. Be diligent. (Don’t spread yourself too thin). Be involved. Find a place to serve. • Start where you are with what you have. Be a blessing: good attitude, do well what you do, 

serve with a positive attitude. • Don’t drain your leaders’ tank – fill it up! • You want the leaders you serve to be glad to see you coming. Have a higher motive than recognition or the applause of men. • Leaders don’t moan about the sacrifice – losers do. Greet people, smile at people, speak clearly and remember and use names. • Be given to hospitality! Use your house if you can, if you cannot use someone else’s! Finding a place to serve: What energizes you? • Hands-on-service is serving God – it is not just about preaching and laying hands on the sick. Is there a particular staff person to whom you are drawn? Is there something you would love to learn about?