when an individual goes through tough times, they feel as if they are estranged from God. But the truth is, He is never closer than when we are walking through difficult times. Someone said, “Tough times don’t last, but tough people do.” “When the going gets tough, the tough get going.” Job’s friends, who are introduced to us as “comforters”, magnified his pain and feelings of alienation! In addition, his wife seemed to side with those who felt that Job must have brought his troubles upon himself through some secret sin. It is in the middle of this perplexity that Job cries out for what he calls a Daysman! In Old Testament times a Daysman was an arbitrator or mediator. When a dispute would arise between two individuals, the Daysman would take a neutral stand and listen to each person plead his case. He was called a Daysman because he was the 

individual who was charged with the responsibility of choosing the day that the dispute would be settled. The parties would agree to abide by the decisions of the Daysman in advance. The hearing of the case between two individuals was very similar to what we know as arbitration. The Daysman was to be one who was considered to be wise and one who could be neutral in the dispute, thus the Daysman’s knowledge would exceed the knowledge of all concerned parties. The Bible states our position in relation to God. Isaiah 55:8-9 (KJV) “For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the LORD. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.” When Job failed in his attempts to help his three friends, Bildad, Eliphaz and Zophar, 

see that he was innocent before God, he recognized his true limitations as a human being and his ultimate need for a Daysman. I. JOB’S CONDITION… All of us have heard of Job’s steadfast faith, and I do not mean to take away from the fact that he was a man of great faith, but Job did reach a point where he felt that all things were against him. Job 9:28-29 (NLT) “I would dread all the pain he would send. For I know you will not hold me innocent, O God. 29 Whatever happens, I will be found guilty. So what’s the use of trying?” This tells us that even a man of such great faith as Job can reach a point where desperation sets in. When this occurs we begin questioning our own relationship with the Lord. This is a dangerous place to be in! Job states in these verses that there is nothing he can do on his own to make 

himself presentable and acceptable to God. Paul says much the same. Romans 7:18-19 (KJV) “For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good thing: for to will is present with me; but how to perform that which is good I find not. For the good that I would I do not: but the evil which I would not, that I do.” Romans 7:24 (KJV) “O wretched man that I am! Who shall deliver me from the body of this death?” II. MAN’S POSITION… Job let’s us know that the Daysman he desired was not a normal Daysman! Job 9:32 (KJV) “For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him, and we should come together in judgment.” Job was careful to make the distinction between a human Daysman and a divine Daysman! An earthly Daysman is capable of misjudging a situation, but this Daysman is a one- hundred-percenter. 

The dilemma we face as mortals is that the ways of God are much higher than our ways. The condition of man is inferior; the position of the Daysman is superior. The transition between thinking and acting on a temporal plain rather than thinking and acting on a spiritual plain is difficult to say the least. This is not an easy assignment because we become emotionally attached to the situation. (If you are ever on trial, you want me on your jury because I don’t think anyone is guilty.) The real problem is not a disagreement of how to bridge the gap between the parties and the Daysman; it is a problem of the guilt of the parties! As we all know, there are three sides to every story: His side; her side; and the truth! Isaiah 59:2 (KJV) “But your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you, that he will not hear.” 

## III. GOD’S PROVISION… In the midst of his dilemma, Job cried out for a Daysman. “That he (the Daysman) might lay his hand upon us both...” Mankind could not find a Daysman who was qualified to settle the sin question, but God did - and His name is Jesus! John 1:14 (KJV) “And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.” Philippians 2:5-7 (KJV) “Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus: Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God: But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:” Because this superior Daysman has been assigned to our case, we can no longer claim

that God does not understand. In becoming flesh, this heavenly Daysman can identify with every difficulty we face: • Sickness… • Loneliness… • Poverty... • Pain… • Rejection… Because He became flesh, Christ earned the right to become at least three things to us: • Advocate… Advocate means comforter. 1 John 2:1 (KJV) “My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.” Jesus did not become our Daysman to help us avoid the charges; He became our Daysman to administer grace rather than justice. (Woman who complained to the photographer about her photos… The woman said, “These pictures do not do 

me justice…” The photographer said, “You don’t need justice, you need mercy!”) • Mediator… A mediator is one who stands between two opposing parties with the idea of resolving a disagreement. 1 Timothy 2:5 (KJV) “For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus.” (Illustrate this by having two people from the audience come up and lay hands on each of them and bring them together) • Intercessor… Hebrews 7:25 (KJV) “Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.” Luke 22:31-32 (KJV) “And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat: But that I prayed for thee that thy faith fail not: and when thou art 

converted, strengthen thy brethren.” CONCLUSION: This world is in dire need of a Daysman: • Congress is split down the middle... We need a Daysman… • The Supreme Court renders morally deficient decisions… We need a Daysman… • More than fifty percent of marriages end in divorce… We need a Daysman… • Christianity is under attack at home and abroad… We need a Daysman… ILLUSTRATION: A recent newspaper report said that “Samantha Engelhardt, 23, broke into the flaming first floor bedroom of her 3-year-old son, Jamie and 18-month-old daughter, Kyra and threw them out a window to safety,” according to Aurora, Colorado authorities. They added... “The mother was hospitalized in serious condition.” When she was reunited with her 

children two days later, “they cried because they could not recognize her.” Isaiah 53:3 (KJV) “He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not.” Jesus heard my cry for a Daysman and came and rescued me from the flames... He is my hero and I will walk according to His instructions all the days of my life… PLACES PREACHED: CT Church Houston TX 7/18/13