Scriptures:  Deut.  25:9-10\ Ruth 4:7-8, Psalms 60:8 and Psalms 108:9\ \ I Chronicles 16:15 says Be ye mindful always of his covenant; the word which he commanded to a thousand generations.  Covenant means (everlasting enduring forever, eternal)\ \ In the messagebible it says HE KEEPS HIS COMMITMENTS ACROSS THOUSANDS OF GENERATIONS, THE COVENANT HE COMMANDED.  Covenant is a formal,  binding agreement.\ \ It was a custom in Israel that when a man gave up a piece of property he took off his shoe in the gate before the  elders as a sign that the one to whom he sold it had the ONLY LEGAL right to walk on the property.  It was a symbol of the transfer of ownership.  Once the shoe was tossed, the property and all the rights thereof belonged to the person it was transferred to.  In your case, you are transferring the rights to God the Father, and the Holy Spirit is the Realtor and Jesus is the attorney. \ \ The transfer of the property in Psalms means you waive all the rights of the property, it is passed from one owner to the other.  The elders witnessing the transaction are like the jurors.\ \ The whole setting is like a courtroom. \ \ Psalsms 60:8 Moab is my washpot oover Edom will I cas out my shoe, Philistia, triumphs because of me. (To triumph means to take victory over, in Hebrew roo-ah (rawa)  to mar by BREAKING-shout for joy, destroy, sound an alarm. The word "over is an "idiom: which means taking possession,   When a one bought a piece of property in olden times he rec\'d the shoe of the seller in the presence of the elders of Israel as a sign of a change in possession.  It symbolized the right to tread upon.  The soil belongs to the new owner, hence the transfer of the sandal was to be as a token of the transfer of ownership. \ \ Therefore,\ \ When you cast your shoe, you are decreeing God\'s covenant and enacting it upon the situation.  God is the judge of the courtroom.  The elders or witnesses are the same as the people who act as a notary when a legal and binding agreement is taking place such as in a courtroom or attorney\'s office.  The people being prayed for are the one\'s pleading their case to the covenant owner.  God says he honors his WORD above his name.  Jesus is a paracleate/or attorney representing the case. \ \ In the mouth of two more more witnesses everything is established.