WHO ARE YOU TAKING? Blue denotes PPT slide Brown – Instructions to technician Genesis 22:1-8 (NKJV) “Now it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham, and said to him, “Abraham!” And he said, “Here I am.” 2 Then He said, “Take now your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you.” 3 So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son; and he split the wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. 4 Then on the third day Abraham lifted his eyes and saw the place afar off. 5 And Abraham said to his young men, “Stay here with the donkey; the lad and I will go yonder and worship, and we will come back to you.” 

6 So Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife, and the two of them went together. 7 But Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, “My father!” And he said, “Here I am, my son.” Then he said, “Look, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?” 8 And Abraham said, “My son, God will provide for Himself the lamb for a burnt offering.” So the two of them went together.” 1) Abraham’s preparation... The wagon, the wood, the son & the servants... 2) The destination... He could see the mountain afar off... 3) Separation... 1/2 way up... Sons get separated from servants... If they were real servants they couldn't have been left behind... The asses get left behind... Leaders spend 90% of their time & energy trying to 

drag the following donkeys to the top of their mountain: • Broke donkey... (Not tithing) • Lazy donkey... (Not serving – Can’t plug them in unless there is something in it for them) • Deceptive donkey… He has an Absalom spirit (Wound licker) I could do this better (The sin of Cora) • Dumb donkey... (He just follows whoever has the influence) • Mean donkey... (Bad attitude – Ulterior motives) • Bitter donkey... (Brought baggage from somewhere else – Sometimes from home) • Stubborn donkey... (Always right – One way (Their way) Too traditional to transition • Controlling donkey... (Jezebel ALWAYS surrounds herself with eunuch’s) 

As you pursue your life's assignment remember this very important truth: “You are not called to everyone and everyone is not supposed to be walking with you!” (Leave on screen until point number 4) 4) Invest heavily in sons and daughters... While we are using our time, effort and resources trying to convince unwilling participants to go to our mountain, anxious sons and daughters languish on the sidelines!!! Spend your time investing in people who want to come with you! When you look at the relationships between fathers and sons it is one of the most amazing relationships available. It has a major impact on where sons can become and how long lasting the influence of the father will be. 

We live in a fatherless generation… Here is the situation outside and inside the church: We have sons who do not know how to submit to a father, and fathers who are too insecure to invest in sons. This has created deadbeat dads and bastard sons in the church! We are seeing the devastating consequences of a fatherless generation in the church! In this scenario, no handoff is possible, therefore generational curses abound and generational blessing is not possible. Most of this is created by the fact that leaders are focusing on dragging donkeys up a hill and have no time to invest in sons and daughters! Sons and daughters feel rejected because the energy needed for mentoring and nurturing is being misplaced by fathers, who are spending all the time and resources on high maintenance, no yield people! 

 VERY IMPORTANT: Whether or not you have a natural father, you definitely have a heavenly father and a spiritual father is available! (Every minister must have a pastor) No relationship is perfect – Fathers are just a little further down the road! If you are a son: • You are your fathers pride and joy… • Your father can see the future in you… • Your father sees a new and improved version of himself in you… • Your concerns and problems are his concerns and problems… • Your accomplishments and success are his accomplishments and success… • Trust your father… • Talk to your father… • Take an interest in your father’s life… 

• Watch and mimic your father… (I have my dads voice) • Ask your father for advice… (Don’t be stupid and go it alone – Make a demand on his leadership – Don’t be a Jezebel (Jezebels must have eunuchs around them) – Don’t be Absalom (Spirit of Cora) - Your father is probably going to give you advice whether or not you ask for it but much more can be accomplished if you ask! • Be prepared to be involved in the ministerial and financial support of your father at the end of the way! If you are a father: • Be prepared to bring ministerial and financial support for your sons in the beginning of his ministry… (Britt – John Tracy) • You are the primary role model of manhood to your sons… (Be a man!) 

• You are the most meaningful mentor in his life… (Don’t screw it up!) • You are his hero… (Act like it!) • Listen to your sons… (God gave you two ears and one mouth) • Find a way to connect… (Try to understand his generation – Be open to new ideas – Every generation must have a rebirth of Pentecost and it looks a little difference in each generation – Nobody wants to be mentored by a sour puss) • Pray with and for your sons… (Give him your blessing – Tell him of your approval – Let him know you believe in him) • Dare to have straight, deep doctrinal talks with your sons… (Explain why you believe what you do rather than just arbitrarily demanding compliance and uniformity) 5) Mountain top experiences are reserved for determined and destined people: 

• Leaders and sons become a blessing on the mountain... • Leaders and sons make history on the mountain... • Leaders and sons achieve destiny on the mountain... CONCLUSION: Do you know what God’s purpose is for your life? What steps are you taking to accomplish His purpose? Who are you taking? Places Preached: Heritage Foundation Watercolors Florida 8/16 CT Church 10/16 Mt. Calvary Powerhouse Poplar Bluff Missouri 8/5/17